Chernyshova / MSD / 


Chapter One


The choir comes up the stage in a perfect line, girls in skirts past their knees, boys in green vests. The music teacher opens up with slow, aching notes on a piano, and the choir joins in, singing in Hebrew, sending goosebumps across Sonya’s skin. She knows this melody well, and her own fingers twitch, touching imaginary piano keys. The teacher puts an unusual spin on the tune, adding a bit of herself — something Sonya is scolded for doing in music school.
Sonya spots Pasha on the farthest side of the school hall, two benches closer to the stage, his usual flannel shirt on, a black kippah atop his light-brown, swirling hair. He stares in front of him, motionless as a statue. Even when they were children, he did the exact same thing when — 
A hand catches Sonya’s wrist.
“Look, there she is!” Alina whispers, gazing at the stage.
Sonya doesn’t need to ask whom Alina means. Among ten or so other girls, Nina stands out. Her long fair hair is a huge contrast to mostly dark-haired girls around her. She is taller than the rest, even taller than some boys.
“She is so beautiful,” Alina whispers again, still clutching Sonya’s wrist.
Nina begins her lead part, her voice so pure, it almost melts Sonya’s skin. It takes her to a nice place where trees are tall and protective, where Debussy and Chopin play, where the rush of water is distant. Where Sonya doesn’t have a stack of blue-coloured papers in her drawer and nightmares about drowning.
Alina’s grip is getting a little sore, but Sonya doesn’t take her hand away. Nina finishes her part; other voices join hers and together they carry the tune. Usually, the school doesn’t have a special performance for Shabbat on Fridays, but this time is different. For days on end, rumours flew around the school about a woman from Canada who would come to visit and might invest in the school’s development, and Sonya guesses a stout, tall woman in a modest green dress sitting next to the stage is her. Sonya doesn’t mind staying later after classes for the concert. She will never get tired of the warmth the choir gives her. 
The voices stop, ending on a high note, and the clapping erupts. Alina’s grip loosens as she wipes the tears from her cheeks. 
“I think I’m past the crush stage,” she says. “I think I’m in love.”
Someone from the row behind sticks their head between them. “Ooh, in love?” Anya, Sonya’s little sister, darts her head from Sonya to Alina and back. “Who you’re in love with?”
“None of your business,” Sonya snaps, and she and Alina are already on their way to the corridor, joining the flock of students.
“Please, please, tell me, Alina!” Anya clings between them. “I swear I won’t tell anyone. Who is he?”
Alina chuckles. “Actually, it’s a — ”
“It’s Misha from the choir,” Sonya cuts in. She ignores Alina’s raised eyebrows. “Now leave us alone.”
Anya squeals. “He is very cute! And from a religious family. Good choice.”
Sonya takes Alina’s hand and together they push through the crowd and walk towards the cloakroom.
“Since when does Anya care who’s religious and who’s not?” Alina asks.
“Hell knows. Bitten by an orthodox bug or something.”
“Okay. And since when am I interested in Misha?”
“Whatever, Anya won’t tell. It doesn’t matter.”
“If it doesn’t matter, why couldn’t we tell her it was Nina?”
Sonya walks on, grinding her teeth.
“I don’t care of people know I’m gay.” Alina peers into Sonya. “Do you care?”
“Of course not.” Still, Sonya lowers her voice. “But my sister isn’t just anybody. You know what she’s like. She’ll freak out, then tell our parents as she does with every damn thing, and they'll freak out even more.”
They take the stairs that lead to the cloakroom. Sonya recalls Pasha’s still frame, staring towards the stage, and her sister’s words echo in her mind. What do you think Mama and Papa would say if they knew?
“Who cares?” Alina says.
“I care. They’re nuts about this sort of thing. They’re already cutting each other’s throats about every damn thing. I don’t want to be another reason to stress them."
“You don’t know, maybe they’ll be okay with it.“
"Yeah, right. Not all parents are as cool and progressive as yours are. Trust me, mine will forbid me from seeing you. They’ll think it’s a contagious condition, and that I’ll turn gay as well.”
“Great! We’ll make a nice couple.”
Sonya laughs, tilting her head back, and slips her hand into Alina’s elbow. Among the students passing them by is Pasha. If he noticed her, he doesn’t show it. It’s been eight years since they last talked properly, and after boys and girls have been divided into two parallel classes, they had even few occasions of seeing each other. Just as it happens each time she sees him, she wants to tell him something but never knows what. Ask him how he’s been? Apologise? Not after all these years of not exchanging a single word. So, just as it happens each time she sees him, she lets him go without saying a word.
Sonya and Alina change from their long skirts to their jeans and cuddle in their coats. The rules of tzniut, a modest dress code, only apply within a school building. As soon as girls leave, they can wear jeans or short skirts, and boys can wear shorts and take off their kippahs. Some girls never change from their skirts even if they are non-religious, but Sonya and Alina do it each time out of principle. If they have a choice, they will make it.
April’s wind is cold, but Sonya welcomes it as she and Alina jump off the school building steps, arms linked. The last two weeks have been snowless, and even though a dirty, grey layer of old snow still covers the ground in the suburbs, in Moscow the grass blades are beginning to peak through.
Together, they descend into the depth of the Moscow metro. It’s not yet busting with people, but it buzzes with anticipation of the evening traffic, its greedy tunnels ready to gobble up packed wagons. Now, only tourists scavenge around, taking pictures of ornate sickles and hammers etched into the wall, of tall columns, of a big, deep-red star, a remnant of communist eminence.
“So,” Sonya says as they wait for the trains, “in love?”
“Huh?” Alina unwraps her long scarf and takes off her hat, making her short, black hair a mess atop her head.
“You said you were past the crush stage and now you’re in love.” Sonya let the words melt on her lips. In love. Even a simple act of saying it gave her a sense of pleasure — tongue touching the ridge, teeth brushing the lip.
“I dunno. But I’ve never felt like this before. You don’t think it can be love?”
“I think love is a strong word to use since you haven’t exchanged a single word with Nina.”
Alina rolls her eyes. The same reaction, whenever Sonya brings this up.
“You should talk to her, Alina. This crush is getting ridiculous.”
“Yeah, well, I’ll talk to Nina as soon as you tell your parents you want to go to a music school.”
Sonya bites her tongue. Alina looks at her with a look of a winner, one eyebrow raised, a smirk on her lips. The truth is, none of them ever wins this argument.
“Oh, my train is here. See you!” Alina gives Sonya a fleeting hug and jolts away. 
Sonya sighs and goes to her own train on the opposite side of the station. She doesn’t bother with headphones — the melody from the concert still plays in her head. Her fingers itch for a piano keyboard. She spent many after-school hours in a music room, just her and a piano, sometimes with Alina huddled in one of the chairs, writing her sci-fi stories. Not today, though — the end of the school year is getting closer, and the amount of homework seems to increase exponentially.
#
At home, by the time she’s done with all of it, the dinner is ready. Papa is already slurring his borscht, and Mama fusses around, cutting bread, wiping the table. Their kitchen is too small for the four of them, but they squeeze in anyway. Sonya sits opposite Anya, staring at her own bowl of borscht. Mama always overestimates the amount of food Sonya is able to eat. Sonya stirs two scoops of smetana to her bowl, and they eat in silence, the TV humming in the background.
“Another portion?” Mama is already on her feet the moment Papa finishes his bowl. She scoops more borscht for him, and Sonya sneaks her own plate into a sink.
“Sonechka, golubtsy?”
Before Sonya could say another word, a plate of stuffed cabbages is on the table. Sonya sits down again, taking a small bite. She hates golubtsy — too much meat for her taste — but she eats half of it. “Thanks, Mama, everything was delicious.”
Her Mama beams and puts golubtsy in Anya’s empty bowl.
“Mama, I’m full.” Anya pushes the plate away and relaxes into her stiff chair, patting her belly.
Sonya knows the frown would settle on Mama's face without raising her eyes from her plate. 
“Well, you can at least nibble,” Mama says, disappointment seeping through her words. “I cooked all evening.”
“Don’t stuff the child, Olga,” Papa grumbles. “Or she’ll explode. We don’t want to see Anya’s intestines all over the wall, do we?”
“Ew, Papa!” Anya laughs, her brown curls bouncing around her — something they both inherited from Papa.
He winks at Anya. “Wouldn’t want to clean that mess from the walls.”
“Not that you would be the one to clean it,” Mama mutters but only Sonya can hear her. Then, she turns to Sonya. “Sonechka, finish your meal, please.”
Sonya gulps as nausea rolls up at her throat. She isn’t sure she can take another bite, but she nods. As long as she doesn’t sadden Mama. She’d peck the cabbage wrap and sneak the rest of the meat to Papa.
“Actually, I wanted to talk to you about something,” Anya says, sitting straight again. 
Her face changes to seriousness, and for a second, Sonya fears Anya somehow found out Alina was gay, and that was the end of their friendship, but she doesn’t have time to process the possibility. 
"I think we should try to follow religious customs," Anya says. She is fourteen, three years younger than Sonya, but the way she talks sometimes makes Sonya feel small, immature. “We have this opportunity — we go to a Jewish school, and they provide us with all the necessary knowledge — but we don’t take it to the fullest.”
“You’re saying you want to become religious?” Mama asks, her fork with meat and cabbage frozen mid-air.
“I’m saying let’s start slow and see where it gets us. Hang on.” Anya rushes away from the kitchen and is back before Sonya can even exchange a look with her parents. Anya passes sheets of paper to them. “I’ve made a list of things we can do now without changing our routine too much so it doesn’t feel too overwhelming.”
Sonya looks at the paper. It’s typed in oversized letters — Anya even thought through that Papa’s vision is getting worse. 
“We can start with little things. Like light two candles every Shabbat, maybe say the blessing. We wear tzniut clothes in school — why not wear them after school as well?”
Sonya can’t concentrate on the words anymore. Nausea creeps back up. She loves spending time with religious families from the school, but it doesn’t mean she wants this life for herself. Certainly, her parents won’t agree.
“Of course,” Anya keeps going, “Papa will have to convert, if we realise we want to do it properly. But it’ll benefit all of us. To do it together, as a family.”
“Benefit?” Papa scowls. “Things are fine as they are.”
“Are they?” Anya asks, making Mama cower under her piercing eyes. “You’ve been fighting. You don’t think we haven’t noticed, do you?”
Mama and Papa exchange glances, both resembling naughty children rather than a pair of adults. 
“It’s certainly a fresh idea,” Mama says, then looks at Sonya. “What do you think?”
“Um, I don’t know,” she mumbles so low her parents probably don’t catch it. She gulps. “I’m not sure I want to be religious in the future.”
“Don’t worry about it now,” Anya says. “Little things at a time. We can at least give it a try.”
Sonya doesn’t reply. Perhaps they are right, and she should focus on small things, but nausea only rolls higher. She pushes her own plate aside, and as they keep discussing it, she stays quiet. A good girl, Mama calls her. Never creating any problems. Never contradicting. Not telling them she dreams of studying music in a conservatory — they wouldn’t allow it, so why bother?
The evening goes on as usual. Mama knits, Papa falls asleep on the couch, the TV still blasting some criminal show. Anya does her homework in their room. Sonya calls Alina, telling her about the dinner conversation, choosing her words carefully — their apartment is too small for secrets.
Night comes, and Sonya lies in her bed, staring at the ceiling, afraid to fall asleep. There’s a familiar feeling in her chest — like it’s going to collapse on itself, crumble under an invisible weight. She knows what would happen when she falls asleep. She opens a drawer of her nightstand, quietly so as not to wake Anya. A stack of identical blue paintings gazes up at her. She’s been painting them for eight years now. It's impossible to say how many of them are there, but the stack is getting too big — last month the drawer didn’t close until Sonya pushed the paintings down and tied them with a rubber band. 
She closes the drawer now. Maybe if she’s prepared, it’ll be easier, and she’ll know it’s only a dream. Her eyelids grow heavy, edges blur.
The blue surrounds her — the water, the sky, her dress. She stands on a rock, and everywhere she can see there’s water. Deep, dark, endless. She needs to jump onto the next rock that just appeared from the endless blue. She doesn’t know why, but everything depends on her getting to that rock. It’s close enough, she could easily step to it, but she jumps, instead, right leg stretched towards the destination.
The distance between the rocks grows bigger, impossible to cross in a single jump, but it’s too late. In slow motion, she goes down, trying to get to the other rock, already knowing she wouldn’t make it.
She takes a breath, the last gulp of oxygen, and submerges lower and lower, doesn’t even try to fight it. The noises get dull, only her heart is pounding loud. Her lungs burn, it gets darker and darker, and still, the blue surrounds her. This is the moment she dies.
Sonya is in her bed, her pyjamas sticking to her sweating body, her eyes still shut. The clock ticks loud, an occasional car passes on the street. She brings the covers closer around her body, tucks it tight like a cocoon and looks at the ceiling, finding comfort in the leaves’ shadows dancing like a shadow theatre. She’ll paint yet another picture tomorrow — the only way she knows of coping ever since that first time she had a dream. Sonya remembers that first painting, the one that lies at the very bottom of her nightstand drawer, and the memory plays in front of her like a video projected on the ceiling.
#
Sonya’s curls had always been unruly, but that day they stuck in weird directions never mind how much she tried to smooth them. The way along the desks felt endless, giggling following her like a nasty stench. Her usual seat was taken. Two girls passed a note between each other, all the while glancing up at Sonya and cackling. Both had straight, smooth hair, as beautiful as her Barbie doll’s. Sonya’s hand flew up to smooth her short curls again as she searched for a free seat. There was only one left, at the end of the classroom — next to Pasha Aronov.
Sonya made a few steps towards him. Pasha was already bent over his paper, drawing pencilled lines. A circle for the sunshine. A boy between two taller stick figures. A Mama and a Papa. Pasha’s fair hair was much too long, going past his ears, falling over his eyes and covering much of the back of his neck. A kippah sat on the top of his head.
There was something everyone said about Pasha. Sonya tried to remember and noticed a tear on the sleeve of his orange shirt. Of course. He was from pansion, a place for the children without parents. Everyone said pansion kids were smelly.
Sonya sniffed the air, but couldn’t smell anything coming from him. She leant closer. Sniffed again. Even closer. Breathed in. Pasha smelled familiar — the way their apartment did after Mama did the laundry and hung the clothes on the rack in the living room.
“What are you doing?” Pasha muttered, eyes tracing his pencil drawing a tree.
Sonya stood straight. “I was looking at your picture.”
“It’s not done yet.”
As Sonya walked around the desk and sat next to him, he scooted to the very edge of the desk. Sonya leant in again, breathing in a fresh odour. It reminded her of spring, and first snowdrops showing their white petals in the garden of their dacha.
“Seriously.” Pasha straightened so fast, he almost bumped Sonya’s forehead. His eyes were hazel, same as Papa’s. “You’d better mind your own painting.”
Sonya looked at a sheet of white paper on the table. She didn’t notice their painting teacher putting it in front of her.
“Why didn’t you make fun of my hair?” she asked.
“Huh?” Pasha added volume to the Stick Mama’s hair.
“The whole class laughed at me in the cafeteria. You are the only one who didn’t. Why?”
“Because I don’t care.” He pencilled a fir tree on the other side of the Stick Family. 
“My Mama said she was too tired of my curls. I cry whenever she brushes them. So yesterday she just cut them off — there were too many knots and she couldn’t undo them. It looked fine when it was wet. When it dried, though …” Sonya patted her hair again, feeling all the curls sticking out. “Papa said it was like an explosion on the pasta factory. And we couldn’t even tie it — it’s too short. My sister laughed so hard and — ”
“You looked sad, okay?” Pasha muttered, not raising his head. “That’s why I didn’t laugh.”
Something warm bubbled inside her at the first nice thing anyone said to her all day. The feeling was refreshing. The memory of her nightmare still clung to her, but maybe she could overcome it as well. She glanced at her own white paper and took a brush. Deep blue strokes covered the paper, one after another, and soon the whiteness was gone. A dash of black in the middle for the depth. Two grey rocks on two sides.
“How is that a picture of your family?” Pasha asked. “You’re supposed to paint a family.”
“I will,” Sonya says. “This one is for me. I keep having a dream in which I’m drowning. I try to jump between two rocks, but I fall into the water.”
The words felt alien on her lips. She’d never said them out loud before and never did since. She added white dabs for the sea foam and put it aside, stirring her brush in a cup. Pasha put the pencil away and dabbed his own brush into the water. Then took some yellow paint and coloured the sun. Their brushes met in the cup of water, turning it green.
Sonya sneaked another piece of paper while the teacher made rounds and quickly painted two girls and a set of parents. Pasha watched her but didn’t ask. He never was the first to ask her anything or begin a conversation.
“It’s for my parents. They’d be sad if they saw this other picture. Do you remember your parents?”
“Um. Not my mum. I think she had light hair like me because my dad has dark hair. He really loves me and wants to take me from pansion, you know,” he said before Sonya had a chance to ask him anything. “He just can’t at the moment. But he will. We talk every day on the phone.” Pasha’s free hand flew up to his ear and began twisting it this way and that.
“That’s nice.”
Sonya finished the second picture and went to change the water. The brown liquid spilt into the sink, and she poured fresh, clear water in. Giggles followed her as she made it back to Pasha. She dipped her brush into yellow and painted his Stick Mama’s hair. She felt Pasha staring at her for a moment, his face close as they bent over his picture, but he said nothing.
“So I told you about my hair,” Sonya said after they finish colouring Stick people and move on to the house. “What’s up with yours?”
“Missed the haircut day,” Pasha mumbled. “The next one is in a few month.”
The smell of paint overpowered the spring scent coming from him, but Sonya still felt a tinge of it. 
“Will it be okay if I sit with you tomorrow?” she asked.
Pasha’s brush halted over the house’s roof, and he sat motionless as a statue for a while, as if someone had frozen him, not even his pupils moving. A red blob fell onto the paper, and he unfroze.
“Okay,” he said and spread the blob over the paper.
Sonya did sit with Pasha the next day, and soon, they became inseparable, like it’s been that way forever. 
#
In her bed, Sonya tucks the blanket tighter around her and as the edges begin to blur again, she knows she’ll have a dreamless sleep. 




Chapter Two


Sonya’s laughter still rings in Pasha’s ears as he enters pansion. Boisterous, loud, her curls bouncing around her shoulders — no one he knows laughs like that. Not that he knows her, either. He forces the sound out of his head. There’s a smoky mist in the corridor — some idiot must’ve been smoking inside — and when Pasha opens the door to his room, his heart sinks. The smoke is so thick, Pasha might as well be smoking as he breathes in.
The room is not his, exactly. He shares it with a roommate, and even the half that’s his is not really his. He never went to a store with his parents to choose a lamp or a blanket; certainly never picked this ugly yellow wallpaper. Everything here from two squeaky beds to a large shabby wardrobe belongs to pansion, and every piece of furniture has once been used by some other boy or girl.
His roommate Igor sits on his bed, playing a game on his phone, swearing occasionally. 
“What the hell?” Pasha towers over Igor. “Why are you smoking inside?”
Igor ignores him.
“Should’ve at least opened the window, you moron.” Pasha opens it himself, waving his arms for the smoke to leave the room. Then, he lies down on a wrinkled bedcover, his muscles resting after a walk. It takes him thirty minutes to get from school to pansion, but Pasha prefers walking to a pansion bus filled with idiots like Igor.
“I’m cold,” Igor says. The room is small enough, so he manages to close the window by raising himself from the bed, grunting like a pig. No, not even pigs deserve to be compared to Igor.
“Should’ve thought of that before.” Pasha stands from his bed and opens the window again, holding onto the frame in case Igor decides to close it.
He shivers a little in the chilly wind. The April weather is still cold, but he opens the window as wide as he can. Unlike everyone around him, he’s sad to see the winter go. He loves the cold and the way the hood of his coat covers most of his face. He lies back on the bed, stretching, and as soon as he does, Igor reaches from his bed and closes the window again, cackling.
Annoyance creeps through Pasha’s body like tiny ants, and he craves for a smoke. He lifts himself up, opens his upper drawer and takes a pack. Two cigarettes left.
“Are you joking?” He rounds towards Igor, his voice rising. “You’re smoking inside and you’re stealing my cigarettes?”
Igor chuckles smugly as if he’d just managed a clever trick, not raising his eyes from his phone. There’s a mole on the left side of his forehead, and nothing in the world annoys Pasha more. If only he could wipe it out of existence, preferably together with Igor.
“How do you know I stole them?” Igor finally says.
“Cause there were five cigarettes this morning. Now there's two.”
“Too bad you can’t prove anything.”
“Just buy your own damn cigarettes, you — ”
The door swings open, and Lev Aleksandrovich, one of pansion carers, enters, his brows drawn together, his large frame filling half the room.
“Pavel, did I hear you swear — wait. Who smoked?”
“Pasha.” Igor jumps from his bed in an instant, crossing his arms. “I keep telling him that if he has to smoke, he should at least do it outside. I can’t stand the smell.”
“No, Igor did it!” Pasha said, indignation inflating inside him, a nasty balloon that’s about to pop. Lev raises a brow at him, then nods at Pasha’s hand. A pack of cigarettes. “I just — I — He took mine and smoked — ”
“Did I?” Igor snorts. “How convenient.”
“That’s enough.” Lev grabs the pack and crumbles it in his large hand. “I need you to be civil. Both of you. Naomi Rosenberg, the woman from Toronto, is coming to visit pansion for Shabbat. She wants to see the conditions here and get to know you all. So no smoking.” He points his finger at Pasha. Then at Igor. “No misbehaving.” 
He leaves only after Pasha and Igor nod.
“No smoking, heard that, Pashtet?” Igor sniggers.
Pasha cringes. If there’s anything he hates more than that damn mole it’s this nickname. Rage bubbles inside him again, his fists clench.
“I work after school, I earned the money,” he hisses. “You owe me a brand new pack.” 
“Should’ve hidden it better.”
The balloon pops. Before Pasha can think, he swings his fist at Igor, and the clash brings pain, and pain brings relief. He’s swimming in it, enjoying every drop of his rage spilling over and has no time to avert Igor’s fist. More pain erupts in his eye, making his blood rush with adrenaline. Finally, relief. 
Pasha loses himself in strikes, punches, yelps until someone tugs him away by the collar of his shirt. 
“What is it with you two?”
Pasha should've known Lev has not gone too far and might hear them. He should've ignored Igor, but he couldn’t resist. He never can.
“He started it — ” Igor cries.
“I don’t care,” Lev interrupts him, his voice calm. “You’ve been sharing a room for more than a month now, and this has to stop. If you hope we’ll find you separate rooms, forget it because we don’t have spare ones, and everybody else is perfectly happy with their living situation. So you either figure out how to exist or — ” Lev halts. “You figure out how to exist, got it?”
There is no shouting and no threats of punishment, but Pasha and Igor nod in unison. 
“Igor, go to the cafeteria, Shabbat dinner is about to start. Pasha, follow me.”
“Why me?”
Lev leaves without a reply, and Igor sneers again, his mole dancing as he wiggles his eyebrows. Pasha follows Lev, rushing to keep up with his long stride.
“Why me?” he asks again as they enter a bathroom. “Igor fought too.”
“Igor doesn’t have blood all over his face.”
Pasha glimpses in the mirror. His lip and nose are bleeding, and a black-eye blooms under his eye. He washes his face with cold water.
“Really, Pasha, with as much fighting as you’re doing, I’d expect you to be better at this. Not that I’m saying you should.” He sticks a finger at Pasha again and gestures for him to sit on the edge of an old bathtub. 
Pasha chuckles. His heart beats at a steady pace again, now that Igor and his ugly mole are out of his sight and there’s only Lev’s calm voice. Lev is around forty, taller than anyone Pasha knows, and the only person he can stand.
Lev meddles with a cotton pad and a disinfectant, and hands it to Pasha to clean his cut lip. Pasha welcomes the stinging, focusing on his breathing. Sonya’s laughter echoes in his head, and he can’t help but remember her sister’s words. He’s dangerous. It has happened so long ago, and he still thinks about it. Stupid.
Lev goes out of the bathroom and returns with a pack of ice. “Anything you want to get off your chest, Pasha?”
Pasha shrugs, tosses a bloody cotton pad into a bin, takes ice from Lev and applies it to his eye. 
“Why did you hit Igor?”
“Why do you think it was me who hit first?” Pasha bristles. He knows the answer, though. Because it’s always him who hits first. He sighs. “He annoyed me. Was talking crap and he stole my — um — things.”
“And why do you think he did it?”
Pasha shrugs again.
“You’re welcome to think out loud.”
“Cause he’s a moron?”
“Perhaps go a bit deeper than that.”
Pasha’s warm skin melts the ice, and a drop rolls off his cheeks like a tear. “He gets a kick out of annoying me, I guess.”
“And?”
“Maybe he likes to fight, and I’m easy to manipulate.”
“I’d say this is fairly accurate. I suppose you two living together is not the best fit, but I want you to work it out. You need to learn to control your anger, okay?”
He’s dangerous. In school, people say pansion kids are trouble. Motherless and fatherless, stuffed with traumas, bound to drink themselves to death or end up in prison. His schoolmates just love it when someone from pansion turns up with a black-eye or a busted lip. They say, “See? I always knew he was dangerous.” Pasha has been giving them the pleasure of being right so many times. He wonders if Sonya’s sister has ever said it to her. “See, Sonya, I told you he was trouble.”
“You hear me, Pasha? You need to learn to control your anger.”
“Then Igor needs to stop being such an idiot and — ”
“Igor has a lot of things he has to do and learn. But we’re talking about you here. Okay?”
Pasha nods and moves the ice to his lip. Drops trickle down his chin now.
“You may skip the dinner if you want, but go to the kitchen after Shabbat celebrations and take a bite of something. I’ll cover for you.”
Lev rarely smiles, same as Pasha, and maybe Pasha someday will be able to be as composed as Lev, and his voice would soothe someone as well. Lev holds himself separately from the students, unlike Dina, pansion’s obnoxious principal and self-proclaimed Mama. He never hugs anyone, always keeps a distance. But at moments like this, all Pasha wants is for Lev to reach out for him like a father might, to pat his back, to say he is proud of him. No, not proud — but to say he is a good person and he’ll be all right.
Pasha does have a father somewhere, but he knows better than to hope for anything from that man. He recalls lying to Sonya about them talking every day, about his father wanting to take him away from pansion. Again, stupid. He doesn’t talk to Sonya anymore, and he doesn’t lie to himself either.
#
Pasha ends up going to Shabbat celebrations anyway. He knows Naomi Rosenberg from Canada will be there, and his curiosity lands him in the farthest corner of the cafeteria, chewing his overdone fried chicken.
He spots her talking to pansion’s principal. A mitpachat over her hair, a long beige skirt, a striped shirt. She looks just like so many other religious women over forty that Pasha has seen, yet it’s obvious she’s not from Russia. Something in her relaxed posture, her easy smile. She probably drives a modern car and lives in a stylishly furnished apartment. Maybe even a house. A real two-storied house with a garden and flower pots.
There have been quite a few patrons coming to their school over the years. They spoke rolling, relaxed English that Pasha didn’t understand. They smiled baring their teeth almost all the time — something Pasha rarely seen Russians do. Sometimes they would find a student they connected with and give this student a chance to live with their family somewhere in New York and study in a religious school. Most of these lucky students went on to become fully religious, got married, learned to speak that rolling English and had easy, happy smiles in their pictures.
Pasha often imagined one of those patrons taking him away, but it’s always been a small thought at the back of his head. What’s different now? Why does he want Naomi to notice him from the crowd and just know that he’s a good person, that he’s more than a boy from the orphanage in worn-out clothes?
He’s being stupid again, but it might be because she is from Canada. A place that a nine-year-old Pasha thought was so magical, a place that, he thought, would make all his troubles disappear. For the third time this evening, he remembers Sonya’s laughter, but this one is from many years ago, when they sat hunched over a geography book, gazing at the pictures of Canada.
#
Her curls still stuck in weird directions that day, making her head triangular, and silly giggles kept following her around. His own hair was still far too long, tickling the back of his neck. Though he seemed to get used to having someone — a friend? — he was surprised each time he got to his desk and found her sitting there.
He slumped next to her, putting a picture book on the table between them. She jumped with surprise.
“What’s that?”
“Geography encyclopaedia from the library. When I grow up, I will go somewhere far away. I want to choose where.”
Pasha had a whole speech prepared, to tell her about some people at pansion who turn eighteen and have nowhere to go and don’t know what to do after school and end up being a burden or going to jail. He wouldn’t be of them. He would go somewhere far away and have a place of his own and wear clothes that belong only to him and never be known as a boy from pansion ever again.
Only Sonya didn’t seem to have any questions. She smiled and nodded and flipped the pages slowly, halting at a few of them.
“South America,” she whispered in awe. “Maybe you can live in the jungle?”
Pasha looked at the pictures of monkeys and lianas, considering. He was aware of Sonya watching him intently, waiting for his reaction. She was too quick for him, always in motion, always beaming. He took his time contemplating, then pointed at the snakes. “Don’t really like these.”
“Oh. Yeah.” Sonya kept flipping. “Japan. Look, pink trees!” She bent down to read. “Sakura trees or Japanese cherry blossoms. They bloom once a year at the arrival of spring. So pretty! I didn’t know trees could be pink.”
Pasha pointed at the word tsunami that he heard before and knew to associate with destruction.
“Fair point.” Flip, flip, flip till they got to the pages about Russia. “What about Kamchatka? Or Siberia? Look how beautiful the pictures are. I’d love to see a real white bear, not the sad ones in the zoo.”
“Too cold,” was all Pasha said.
“Well, aren’t you picky,” Sonya muttered as she kept flipping, but a smile didn’t leave her face. It rarely did. “How do you survive in Moscow, then?”
“It’s okay here. I like Moscow kind of cold. And it gets warm in April. But I’d like to live somewhere far. Really far.”
“Oh, look! Canada! Look at these forests.”
Pasha stared at a centrefold with pictures of waterfalls, cold lakes and snowy fields with pines edging them. There was something familiar about them, something almost Russian, yet it was a whole enormous ocean away.
“Are there snakes there?”
They read through the text together. 
“Most aren’t poisonous,” Sonya said. “Lots of bears and moose, though.” 
“Sounds perfect. As long as there’s no snakes.”
She laughed then, a boisterous laughter that made heads turn. “You’re such a scaredy cat.”
“When’s the wedding?” someone called.
A snicker came from behind Pasha’s back, and before he got a chance to turn around, a smack on his head sent his kippah flying onto the floor. He picked it up, gritting his teeth. A group of boys laughed, pointing their fingers at him and Sonya.
Pasha was ready to hurl himself towards them, but the door of the classroom closed behind the teacher. She was at her desk, urging everyone to sit and calm down. Pasha picked up his kippah and buried his head in his shoulders. He glimpsed at Sonya, her head bent low over the book, the visible side of her face red.
“How do you do it?” she mumbled.
Pasha bent lower to the book as well. “Do what?”
“You’ve never had friends. I hate not having any friends.”
“I don’t need friends.”
The teacher passed their table, putting white sheets of paper in front of them. She halted, scowling at the book. Pasha snatched it and put it back into his backpack. In a flash, Sonya filled a glass with water, then grabbed brushes and paint.
Pasha had only just taken up a pencil when Sonya’s paper was already half filled with blueness, the same blazing, swirling blue as her eyes.
“Mama says everybody needs friends.” She added white to her paper. 
“Not me.”
“I guess it’ll be easier for you to go to Canada if you don’t need to say goodbye to a lot of friends. Only to your Papa.”
Pasha gulped and pencilled a forest, his free hand flying to his ear. He tried to remember the last time he spoke with his father.
“Do you think he will be sad?” Sonya asked.
“Of course. Maybe he will go with me.”
A voice inside him laughed at the absurdity of it. Sonya finished her blue picture that seemed to be darker than the one she did last week, then took another paper and began painting mountains.
#
Now that Pasha looks at Naomi Rosenberg, he thinks perhaps him choosing Canada wasn’t such a bad idea. He’d go to Canada to live with a nice family, he’d have the same rolling English and relaxed posture. He might even live in a house with a garden and flower pots.




Chapter Three


Sonya has only spent half an hour in the shower, but when she comes back to her room, it’s a complete disaster — clothes are scattered all over the floor, taking up almost all space. Anya takes a skirt from her wardrobe and throws it on the floor, her curls sticking out of the bun on top of her head.
“What the hell are you doing?” Sonya untowels her hair and tries to get to her wardrobe, stepping over the mess.
“Sorting through,” Anya says, now bending over one of the colourful piles.
Sonya opens her wardrobe and gasps — it’s empty. She scans the floor, and there they are, all of her clothes.
“Did you take my clothes? Damn it, Anya!”
“Hey.” Anya stands straight, a pair of jeans in one hand, another pointing at Sonya. “Stop swearing, won’t you? And yes, I’m cleaning your wardrobe as well since you’ve done it, um, never.”
“Wait, are those my jeans? Give them back!”
Sonya leaps forward to grab her favourite jeans — black and rather shabby but so comfortable —  when Mama’s voice carries from the kitchen.
“What’s going on over there?”
“Nothing,” Sonya and Anya say in unison. 
They stay frozen for a moment, listening for Mama’s steps, but everything is still. 
“Give me my jeans back,” Sonya hisses.
“We’re giving them to charity.” Anya throws them into a pile to her left. 
Sonya looks closely — it’s not just her jeans. A considerable part of her wardrobe is in the charity pile. A scream dead in her throat, she gasps, lunges at the clothes and picks them up, tucking them under her armpits, throwing them over her shoulders.
Anya doesn’t try to take them back, doesn’t stop her, doesn’t yell for Mama. She simply watches Sonya, arms crossed across her chest. Once all the clothes are in Sonya's possession, the two stare at each other.
“Didn’t you say you want to do it with us?” Anya asks, talking to Sonya, her older sister, as if she was a small child. “Try to be more conscious and follow the traditions?”
“But — they’re my clothes. Some of them are brand new.”
“It’s not about old or new. It’s about whether they’re tzniut or not. It’s about modesty. All the skirts you wear out of school are above the knee length. You’ve got an unbelievable pile of tank tops you never wear. Your shirts are too flashy — there’s one with a huge picture of lips and tongue on it — can you imagine wearing it for Shabbat?”
“It’s my Rolling Stones T-shirt,” Sonya mumbles, swaying under the weight of her clothes, “What, I can’t listen to Rolling Stones now?”
Mama enters the room just as Anya is about to answer. “Do you girls want to — what’s happening here?”
Sonya drops the pile on the bed.
“Sonya doesn’t want me to get her clothes to charity.”
“What? Why?”
“I mean — ” Sonya stutters. “Just because — I like them. These jeans for example. And this shirt.”
Mama comes into the room, careful not to step on clothes. “I have many wonderful clothes as well, but it’s about modesty, isn't it?” Mama repeats Anya’s words. “And giving our clothes to people in need is tzedakah, charity, a good thing to do. Also, it’ll be a nice reason for us, girls, to go shopping, won’t it?”
“I thought you said you weren’t sure about this idea,” Sonya says.
“You know what, I’m beginning to like it. Papa and I went to this seminar for those who want to start following traditions, and everyone is so supportive there.”
Sonya is about to say she doesn’t want any of it, but Mama’s face almost glows. When was the last time Mama was so excited? When was the last time she and Papa did anything together, just the two of them? Sonya teeters between saying the words and nodding to Mama, then, eventually, nods. Mama beams at her. A good girl. Never creating any problems.
“Can I at least have this T-shirt?” Sonya points at her Rolling Stones shirt. “And the jeans? Just for now? It happens too fast.”
“Sure.” Mama nods, comes closer to her and Anya and hugs them both at once. “It is going pretty fast. Anyuta never rests, does she? But I do enjoy seeing you two girls working together. You were so close when you were little, two adorable little girls with your curls. I miss it.”
Mama pecks Anya’s forehead, then Sonya’s still wet hair, and lets go. Sonya clings to her for a moment too long. Mama goes to the kitchen, leaving her and Anya to look at each other.
“You can say no, you know,” Anya says.
“I know.”
“I just thought you liked the idea, and I remember how much you don’t like sorting through — ”
“It’s okay. I like the idea.” 
Sonya smiles, a familiar stretch of her lips that doesn't quite resonate in her heart, and helps Anya sort the clothes. A silly green dress with tiny frogs that Sonya wore for her birthday and gave to Anya only a few years ago. Gone to the charity pile. A mini skirt that Anya bought on a whim but was too self-conscious to wear, so she gave it to Sonya. Charity pile. A big hoodie that belonged to the first boy Sonya ever kissed. Charity pile. Charity pile. Charity pile.
Maybe Anya and Mama and Papa are right. Maybe it is the right thing to do. Yet, as Sonya puts her remaining clothes into her wardrobe, she can’t get rid of a little nasty gnawing somewhere in her stomach. Her fingers twitch for piano keys.
There’s her familiar piano in the living room, but Sonya has long ago learned not to parade her emotions this way. It leads to questions, to incessant worry, to restrictions. As soon as she and Anya have finished sorting, Sonya changes into her black jeans and a long-sleeved shirt that was just non-flashy enough to escape the charity pile, and rushes out of the house.
#
The school is quiet on a Sunday, and there’s not a soul in the music room. Sonya’s soft steps thud across the linoleum as she walks to the piano. Stool legs scrape the floor. Her fingers touch the familiar keys, pushing them down, greeted with pressure. Finally, relief. Finally, something she controls and won’t be apologetic for. She starts slow, with Satie’s Gnossiennes No.4, questioning and quiet, then moves to Hungarian Rhapsody, gains speed and power, abandons it half way and switches to the ending of Chopin’s Ballade No. 2, pounding the keys as hard as she can, hurling away her frustration.
Her music teacher would have passed out if she heard Sonya switching from one piece to another, but she doesn’t care. At least now, in this empty quiet room, she will do what she wants to instead of what’s expected of her.
Time has passed without her notice, and only her aching wrists bring her back to reality. She shouldn’t really play when she’s stressed because it always ends in sore wrists, but she doesn’t know how else to cope with things. Even now, she takes her hands off piano keys, feeling light, a butterfly that has burst out of its cocoon.
Sonya walks towards the school library, pulling her book from her backpack on the way. Though library chairs are not comfortable and Sonya’s room has a perfect reading nook, she doesn’t want to be home now. She opens the book in English and takes out her pen and a small notebook, ready to write out unknown words.
The library is empty apart from a librarian, and so quiet, Sonya is afraid to turn the page. Not that she needs to do it — she can’t concentrate, staring blankly at the page. Instead of the words, she sees the colourful, cheerful charity pile; she remembers the blue of the dream, the burning in her lungs, the dullness of sounds. She could talk to Alina, but she would never understand. Alina’s parents are non-traditional, open-minded, and she never gets why it’s so hard for Sonya to say anything against her parents’ wishes.
Sonya puts the book aside and walks between the shelves, to and fro, just to keep moving, chewing the edge of her pen, tapping her side with the notebook. What if everything goes well, and, before Sonya knows it, she is to marry a nice religious boy from a nice religious family, and she is to cover her hair with a mitpacha every day, and say prayers and be a good wife just as she’s been a good daughter?
All the things she will miss in life pop into her head, one after another. She only kissed two boys and never stayed up all night, dancing with friends. Never tried alcohol or smoking. Not that she wants to — but it would be nice to have a choice.
She rounds yet another line of shelves and stops dead. On the floor, between two rows of shelves sits Pasha, a book oh his lap. Light-brown waves fall over his forehead, and there’s a fresh black-eye blooming. Pasha raises his head and freezes, his dark eyes growing huge. Then, a deep red flush covers his face, his neck, his ears. His eyes dart to the book on his lap, and Sonya gets an inexplicable pang in her chest.
The geography encyclopaedia, opened on the Canada centrefold.
Heavy silence stretches between them. Pasha jumps up from the floor, shoves the book onto the lowest shelf and darts away past Sonya before she can process what she’s just seen. She whirls around, manically trying to come up with words, any words that will make him stop, but he’s already out of her reach.
Thuds come from the side of the library where he fled, books hitting boxes. He must be working here, that’s why he’s here on a Sunday. He always did enjoy the stillness and eeriness of empty places.
Only he hasn’t been working now. He has been looking at the book — no, at their book. Sonya’s legs lead her to the end of the row, and she takes the geography book out. She tucks her legs underneath her and flips through the pages. She remembers every page, every picture, if faintly. Another memory settles in her mind, replacing the blue of the dream — their tree of life, half of the book in his lap and half in her, dreams about running away, about Canada. The two of them so naive and so free.
Now, Pasha has yet another black-eye. It's not anything new, of course, but it spurs an idea in Sonya’s head. Her heart beats too fast as she tears a small piece of paper from her notebook and scribbles hasty words. She bites her lip, considering what she’s doing, trying to think logically, failing. Then she folds the note in two, puts it inside the book, and returns the book to the lowest shelf. 
She sits still, waiting for her moment to disappear unseen. 


Chapter Four


Pasha sorts books into boxes automatically. He’s worked in the school library for a solid month now and finally got to a point where he didn’t have to focus much while working. Today, however, he would’ve preferred something to occupy his mind so that he wouldn’t relive the embarrassment over and over. Why did he have to turn red like such an idiot?
Reading that geography book is a silly habit, but it’s one he doesn’t want to get rid of. There’s a shameful, yet comfortable familiarity in going to the farthest part of the library, settling down by the lowest shelf and opening that book on the Canada centrefold.
Only this time, just as he sat there, remembering Sonya from the past, a very real Sonya stood before him. Hopefully, she won’t assume he still thinks about her or, worse, has a crush on her? He should’ve checked there was no one in the library first. What was she doing here on a Sunday, anyway? No, he should’ve looked her straight in the eye, so that she would’ve blushed, not him. Idiot.
Shrugging off the irritation, Pasha opens another box, takes books one by one, all brand new. One of them attracts his attention. The cover is perfectly black apart from The Road written in English in big red letters. Pasha sees many books every day, reads as many as he can, but he’s never seen such a striking cover. He checks the back — everything is in English. He can’t read what the book is about, but images spring in his mind. Of a road, of darkness, of going forward, away.
 There are several copies of the same black book, all new. He puts all but one into a separate box for further labelling, then sneaks the one he set aside into his backpack, shiver coming down his spine as if someone is watching him. 
Trying to look as nonchalant as he can, he comes up to the librarian. She is typing something into the computer and is so concentrated she probably wouldn’t notice Pasha even if he wanted her to.
“I’m done for today.”
“Uh-huh.” She slides a paper sheet for him to sign the hour he leaves next to the hour he came. It’s not the first time he puts a book into his messenger bag without checking it out, yet still, he is jittery and his handwriting comes out all awkward. If someone were to investigate all the missing books, they’d probably be able to tell the days when Pasha took the books based solely on his handwriting.
He doesn’t leave the library, though. No crook in pansion is as still as this place, so Pasha goes to the end of the library, not far from where the geography book is, then takes out the black book, sits on the floor and flips through it. A couple of words are familiar, but it’s not enough to understand what’s happening. If he really wants to impress Naomi Rosenberg, learning English is a priority.
Sonya is excellent with English, a thought cuts across his mind. Carefully, he peeks from between the shelves to see if she’s still there, but the library seems empty again. He would’ve asked her for help — maybe — if it wasn’t for this abyss of a lost friendship between them. He remembers her blue paintings that she never explained to him, how she helped him paint his family. Remembers her boisterous laughter that keeps haunting him, then he shakes his head, hoping to shake off the memories as well.
He goes to a section with dictionaries and stares at the selection. How do people even begin with learning a foreign language? He pulls out one of the thick dictionaries, almost toppling over from its weight. Then he takes a smaller one and flips through.
The library is rather big, but it’s so empty that when a flash surges from the corner, Pasha notices her at once, and he thinks he spots a curl that broke free from her bushy ponytail. He freezes, and in an instant, she’s gone, like a mirage, as if she was never there.
A small dictionary nearly falls from his grip, and he shoves it back on the shelf. He knows well which side of the library Sonya has fled from. During these years of sneaking library books into his bag, he’s been considering taking the geography book, but now, despite himself, he glad he didn’t. Did she look through the book? Does she do it often? Does she come to the library just to sit alone with this book as well?
Pasha stumbles towards that shelf, his knees buckling, takes the book out, opens it automatically. Something slips from it and falls in his lap. He picks it up. A note folded in half.
His heart beats so fast, it’s painful. Before his mind begins to race with possible scenarios of what could be written inside, he opens it.


I have a proposition. Want to meet?


The letters are round, curvy and angled perhaps too much to the right. He stares at the note, inspecting every letter separately, tracing the loops and bends with his eyes. Whatever her proposition might be, his mind draws a blank.
Dulling a curiosity is a skill that Pasha learned a long time ago. A lot of groups in pansion work on curiosity — make you interested in something so you say yes and before it’s too late, you find yourself blamed for the trouble they’ve made. He’s been caught too many times before he learned to avoid it. He touches the torn upper corner of the book. Not answering means never to know what's her proposition, but also means avoiding a let down again.
He crumbles the note in his palm, checks out the geography book, then leaves the library. His mind is made up — he should toss the note to the bin on his way to the bus stop, but he keeps it tight in his hand. Dreary buildings, cars, people zoom through the window as Pasha rides his bus to pansion, and he watches them go, not opening the note, but not throwing it out either. His hands are so sweaty, they probably smudged the ink. His eyes can't catch on anything on the street, the colours blend together, and the scenery blurs.
#
A few months after Sonya first sat with him, they became inseparable, so much that their classmates stopped mocking them. Pasha even thought he might reconsider his view on having friends. They got a habit of going to the park near the school after classes and flip through the book, leaning against a thick trunk of a maple tree. They called the tree Etz Chaim, a tree of life, the same name as their school. Maple leaves fell on their open book, and they kept the prettiest as bookmarks. The smallest leaves fitted nicely to the shape of the leaf on the Canadian flag.
The day before Pasha’s haircut day they sat under their tree, half of the geography book on Pasha’s lap, the other half on Sonya’s.
“I asked Papa,” she said, “and he told me you’d have to take a plane to get to Canada and fly for several hours.”
“That’s pretty far.”
“I would love to see this place for real.” She pointed to the picture of the forest, then turned towards him, her face too close. “Maybe … maybe we can go together?”
The word no caught in Pasha’s throat as he nodded. His body seemed to be working on its own.
“I’d really miss my piano, though. There must be pianos in Canada, right?”
“Sonya?” someone called.
Pasha raised his head from the picture of the forest. Sonya’s little sister gawked at them, her eyes bulging like she was some character from a cartoon. They were of the same striking blue as Sonya's eyes.
“He is from pansion!” she gasped, hissing the last word as if she thought Pasha wouldn’t hear her. 
“So what?” Sonya said, her shoulders sagging a little.
“He’s dangerous!”
“I — so what — ”
“You know what Mama and Papa would say if they know.”
Sonya gulped. Her face paled the same way her blue paintings did when she added white paint to them. She fiddled with the corner of the book.
“Don’t tell them,” she mumbled so quietly Pasha was sure her sister would ask her to repeat, but she just stared, her arms crossed.
“He’s dangerous, Sonya,” she repeated. “Papa would never let you talk to him.”
“I’m not dangerous,” Pasha said and was about to continue, when Sonya jumped up from the ground. He froze mid-sentence, his arm reaching to hold on to her on its own. “Where are you going?”
“I have to go,” Sonya muttered and gave him a wide smile.
He’d seen this smile before, but that time it was wrong. Pasha watched her leave, her bouncing curls sticking out in all directions. He glanced at the book. The upper corner was torn. 


The next day, Pasha hoped Sonya would recognise him. He’d finally had his hair cut and was touching it every few minutes, each time surprised to find it so short. He took his seat, pulling the geography book from his backpack. Five minutes since the class started, and Sonya still wasn’t there. He looked around the classroom and froze. One row to the left and two desks in front, Sonya sat with some girl.
Her curls had begun to resemble a normal haircut. She chatted with a girl, giving her the same wide smile she used to give him. Pasha had an urge to stand up, come up to her, but was there a point?
Perhaps she only talked to him because there wasn’t anyone else, and she really needed a friend. She always did hate not having friends. And he was just a boy from pansion, and not even his parents wanted him. He opened the geography book, flipped the pages. He would go to Canada one day, and he wouldn’t have to say goodbye to her. He nodded to himself, his finger tracing the tear on the corner of the page.
#
Pasha is surprised he’s in pansion already, the note still clasped in his hand. He halts in the corridor, opens it and reads it again. He decides not to answer and throw it away, but seconds tick, and he stands there, tracing the letters with his eyes. It takes him longer than he’d like to admit to himself to crumble the note and throw it into the waste bin.
In his room, he takes his new black book out. His book. Something that belongs only to him. Not something used he got from other students. Not something communal pansion provided him with. Not something they gave him for the New Year. Something entirely his own.
He keeps his books in the lower drawer of his nightstand, hoping that even if Igor would be stupid enough to go through his stuff, he wouldn’t know they are from the library. And Igor is certainly stupid enough to never even want to steal his books. Pasha’s mind lingers on the word ‘steal’. But it’s different, isn’t it? Igor steals out of spite and laziness. Pasha takes some books, yes, but the library has so many already, and he might even return them someday, when he has enough money to buy books from a shop.
It’s difficult to find a quiet place in pansion in the evening when everybody has finished their homework but it’s not yet time for bed. Igor fills their room with his idiot friends, so Pasha takes his new book and a geography book under his armpit and wanders through the halls.
The main hall is rather just a spacious living room with shabby furniture and big windows where some of the meetings are held. It's quiet today, and when Pasha turns on a small table lamp, it gets eery. He likes eery. He likes being alone near a feeble lamp in a place that’s usually brightly lit and bursting with people. Pasha imagines that a big family might live here, and they might gather in the evenings, and a mother might help her children with homework, and a father might tell a funny story from work. Or they might just stare at the TV and not talk. Pasha doesn’t know what families do in living rooms.
He flips through his book, once again mesmerised by the full black cover. He completely forgot to take that dictionary from the library, with all this nonsense from Sonya. He really should know more English than he does with all the patrons coming from North America and Great Britain, but the teachers are too dull for him to pay attention to them for too long. The book has short chunks of text and he thinks it might be good for him when he learns more. Easier to focus on smaller segments.
Steps come from the corridor, and Naomi Rosenberg is in the doorway, waving to Pasha from the entrance. She says something to him, and he inwardly curses yet again at his lack of English language skills. Next, he curses his black-eye that’s already in full bloom on his left side. Way to impress her. Then, she sees the books and points at the chair near Pasha, saying something. He nods, and she sits near him.
She exclaims as she sees The Road and gives him a thumbs up. He nods again and shows her the geography book, opening it on the Canada centrefold. She gasps in a more emotional way than what Pasha is used to, and says a lot of things, and Pasha tries to grasp at familiar words. He recognises Lev’s name. Her intonation suggests that it’s a question.
“Uh, Lev, yes. He’s like a father to me. I mean to all of us.”
Even just saying these words out loud, Pasha sweats and holds his arms closer to himself so Naomi wouldn’t see wet stains under his armpits. He probably only managed to say the words because he knows Naomi won’t understand and there’s no one else around.
They flip through the pages, not unlike he and Sonya used to flip the pages, sitting under their tree. Pasha tries to tell this story to Naomi, but the only words he knows are ‘tree’, ‘book’ and ‘friend’, and he’s not sure he wants to use the latter. They sit like that for a long time, and Pasha tries to believe that Naomi is real, a real person who wants to talk to him, even if they don’t speak the same language. Someone who knows he’s from pansion, someone who's able to look past 'he's dangerous' and offer him understanding.
Sometime later, Naomi says what must be a good bye and stands up, waving. Pasha watches her leave, then stares at the torn corner of the book. He’s not sure what he’s doing, but his legs are faster than his brain and they carry him back to the entrance and he kneels in front of the waste bin. The note is stuck between an orange peel and a broken pencil, but Pasha fishes it out and smoothes it on the floor. 
He grabs a pen lying around on the desk and writes a response, and his handwriting comes out as scribbly as when he writes his name after stealing a book.


Chapter Five


Monday comes, and before Sonya changes into her school skirt, before she glimpses into a mirror to check if her hair is completely ruined by the wind, before she meets Alina on their spot by the windowsill, she rushes to the library.
It’s just as empty as yesterday. Sonya walks past the numerous rows and kneels by the lowest shelf. The book stands there peacefully, like it’s never been touched at all. Maybe it hasn’t. Maybe Pasha didn’t open it again. Maybe she should’ve been more assertive and asked him face to face instead.
She takes a breath, opens the book and there is her note, right on the spread of waterfalls and lakes of Canada. She unfolds it, biting her lips, and her heart skips a beat. There, underneath her own round handwriting is the answer in small, sharp letters.


Monday, after classes, under the tree.


Sonya exhales. The note is crumbled, and her ink is smudged. She traces the word ‘tree’ with her finger, pockets the note, and puts the book back. Then, she checks her hair — frizzy like hell today — changes into her skirt and meets Alina. She enters a studying mode at once, driving all thoughts of the meeting away. 
When the classes are over, the nervousness falls on Sonya like an avalanche. She comes to the maple tree where she and Pasha used to spend so many days together, her lips hurt because she bit them too hard. Heaps of dirty grey snow still cover parts of the park, but it’s clear near the tree, and bright green grass peaks from the ground. The park is nearly empty apart from a babushka wrapped in a red shawl, feeding pigeons and sparrows.
Sonya turns towards the sun, shielding her eyes, letting the warmth settle over her skin. Warmth might not be the best-suited word for the chilly wind, but as long as it doesn’t snow in April, Sonya is happy. She looks around and sees Pasha coming towards her, his steps a tad too big. He keeps his hands in the pockets of his black jacket, his head bowed low. The wind messes his light-brown hair, and even from the distance, his black-eye is visible.
“Hey!” Sonya smiles when he is close.
“Hey.” He doesn’t smile back, but he never did when they were kids either. 
“How you’ve been?” Sonya asks just as he asks, “What was your proposition?” 
Sonya chuckles, and Pasha purses his lips.
“I asked you first,” Sonya says playfully even though it’s not true.
“I’m okay.”
He doesn’t ask her how she is, but he never did when they were kids either. Whether he’s not interested or too shy, she could never tell. He keeps his gaze on the patch of ground between them, scuffing it with his boot.
“The weather is so nice today,” Sonya says as the awkward silence stretches. “Finally warm.”
Pasha buries his hands even deeper into his jacket’s pockets. No use in waiting for him to say or ask anything.
“Um, so my proposition,” Sonya begins. “Kind of a long story, actually. So, my sister wants us to follow religious traditions. You know, like eating kosher food, wearing tzniut clothes after school and stuff.”
Pasha nods. He glances at her occasionally, squinting at the sun, but mostly keeps his head down.
“And I realised,” Sonya goes on, “that there are so many things I haven’t tried in my life. Things I won’t be able to do if we’re religious, you know? So I want to do it now, only, I don’t know how. I don’t know where they sell cigarettes and alcohol to minors and all that stuff. That’s why I need your help.”
A frown creases Pasha’s brow. A child’s cry comes from the other side of the park, and a flock of pigeons fly upwards from the babushka, their wings fluttering in unison.
“Help?”
“Yeah. You know all this stuff.” Sonya beams. “Teach me to be bad.”
She came up with the punchline yesterday and is really proud of it, but her confidence falters as Pasha finally raises his eyes.
“Are you crazy?” He gapes at her. “You think I smoke and drink all day? Jeez. I’m not some dangerous bad boy from some stupid movie.”
Sonya wants to mention his bruises but bites her lip. “Well, you don’t have to do it with me. Just, you know, be a provider of goods. I’ll pay you for the stuff you buy, naturally.”
He shakes his head, looking away again, his eyes dark and unreadable. “I’m not doing it. This is crazy. You’re taking for granted everything that — never mind. I’m not doing it.”
“I just need a guide, that’s all. I can pay you extra.”
It’s like someone wound her up and she can’t stop even if she wanted to. She needs him to say yes. Of course there are other people she can ask, but it’s a matter of principle now. It has to be him.
“I’m not doing it.”
“I’ll do your homework for you.”
“I don’t need you to do my homework for me,” Pasha snarls. “I can do it on my own, I’m not stupid.”
“I didn’t imply you were. If you can do it, why don’t you? You’re flunking almost every class.”
Pasha turns his face away, his shoulders hunched. He shuffles his feet as if he can’t wait to flee. He’s slipping away from her, same as when he ran away from her in the library. 
“Maybe you need help with your studies?”
Pasha blinks, a light flashing in his eyes. There it is. A way in.
“I can help you,” Sonya says fast, before he shakes his head again. “Is there something specific you need help with?”
Pasha halts, as if debating whether to tell her or not. “English.”
Sonya beams and nearly jumps with excitement. “Well, English is only my favourite thing in the world. I can help you with it, and with any other subject you need. This is perfect, don’t you see?”
“What?”
“You’ll teach me to be bad. And I’ll teach you to be good.”
Pasha rolls his eyes, but his feet are still, his frame is calm. It’s like he’s frozen, but she remembers that when they were little, he used to do the same when processing information. She waits patiently, watching the babushka walk out of the park and into the street. The wind blows over them, and Sonya buttons her coat. A maple leaf lazily drops right between their feet. Maybe she needs Pasha to say yes because of something more than just a principle. 
She returns her gaze to him. His eyes aren’t exactly unreadable. There’s a familiarity in them, a speckle of amber she remembers. She used to compare his eyes to a warm cup of cocoa when they were little. 
Pasha meets her eyes and extends his arm towards her. “Deal.”
Sonya chuckles, then puts on a fake serious face and shakes his hand. She notices it’s wet, but then her own hand is wet as well.


Chapter Six


Before he got to school, Pasha bought a brand new pack of cigarettes to start this whole ‘learning to be bad’ thing. He nearly chuckles at how absurd it sounds, but he doesn’t care as long as Sonya will help him with his English. Her presence is invisible, intangible, yet he keeps imagining that she watches him, that any moment he would raise his eyes, and she’ll be there. It makes him be cautious of everything he says and does. 
Igor’s presence is more tangible. Pasha has been careful not to give in to his rage, and he’s almost proud of himself. So that’s what it feels like to be collected and composed like Lev. Igor’s teasing gets to a ridiculous degree during the last class when he reserves to throwing chewed paper at Pasha. This is low even for him. He must be out of ideas.
After the class, Pasha is the first one out, starting down the stairs. What if he meets Sonya on his way to the park and would have to do a small talk? He shudders. Would it be better to get there sooner and wait for her there? Then she would see him when she would walk towards him, and he doesn’t want her eyes on him. Maybe he should be a little late, but then she might watch him walk towards her, and he doesn’t want that either. He doesn’t want any of it, really, but keeps on going. Better to come early, he decides and picks up his pace.
He taps the pocket of his jacket and freezes mid-stride. The cigarette pack is gone. He checks the bag as well — nothing. A familiar wave of rage washes over him, and he whirls around, rushing back into class. Not again. Igor didn’t steal his cigarettes again. When he's there, Igor is strutting out of the classroom, a stupid cackle coming out of his mouth.
“Did you take it?” Pasha blocks his way.
“Take what?” Igor asks and by his jeering Pasha knows the answer.
“I just bought it. Give it back.”
“Dunno what you’re talking about, Pashtet.”
“If you’re set on being a dick can you at least be more original?” he hisses, trying to control his anger, not really knowing how.
“Dude, I don’t have time for this,” Igor says, and the ugly mole on his forehead begs Pasha to hit him. “Gotta go out for a smoke now.”
Pasha lunges, throwing all remains of self-control and all promises to the wind, tackling Igor to the ground, but before any of them can even strike a blow, someone pulls them apart.
A few teachers and students are there, and right in the middle is Lev. Lev watches him with a deep furrow on his brow. Time slows down, and everything happens as if in slow motion. Lev helps Igor stand, while Pasha is still on the ground. His big hand is on Igor’s shoulder, and he asks him if he's all right. Then, he turns to Pasha and shakes his head.
“Haven’t I asked you to behave yourself?” He sticks his finger at Pasha, as he did a few days ago, but this time it doesn’t move to Igor. “What about keeping your anger in check, Pasha? Was I the only one present during that conversation?”
“He almost hit me again, Lev Aleksandrovich!” Igor screams.
Pasha raises himself. He should say he’s sorry, he knows that, but the rage inside him has already spilt over. Lev’s hand is still on Igor’s shoulder, fatherly and comforting.
“Why don’t you say anything to him?” Pasha barks instead.
“He’s not the one who had started a fight.”
“You know he starts it, you know it, like last time.”
Igor grins, standing behind Lev’s back. Lev simply looks as Pasha, not turning to Igor, not seeing that smirk, not understanding. He shakes his head again, then walks away with Igor, his hand as if glued to his shoulder.
How is that even possible? The crowd around him disperses, and he catches familiar ‘reckless pansion kids’ remarks. He craves for the relief of pain, to kick something, to break something, to smoke, to — 
His shoulders sag. Damn Igor with his stealing and damn Lev with his hand on Igor’s shoulder and damn Sonya with her ridiculous ideas. He rushes out of the building, buys the cheapest pack of cigarettes, and walks towards the park, kicking a waste bin on his way. His foot pulsates with pain — a slight relief, but not enough.
#
The park is crowded this Wednesday, filled with noises and disturbances. Sonya sits by the tree, an image of some vivid dream from his childhood, and she smiles as she sees him coming closer. She watches him, as he feared she would. He joins her under the tree, and the ground is cold, a good kind of cold. There’s a long-forgotten pleasure in sitting on the ground after months of endless, snow-filled winter.
“How was your day?” she asks, her voice too bright, too cheerful.
“Okay.”
There’s a small pause, and maybe he has to ask her how her day was, but he doesn’t really care. They sit shoulder to shoulder, so painfully familiar that he wants to flee. But a deal is a deal, so he grabs a cigarette pack from his pocket. “So, I brought this.”
“Oh, great!”
He sneaks a peek at her. She’s still smiling, and her gaze darts to his black-eye for a splitting moment. Pasha opens the cigarette pack and reaches for a lighter.
“What are you doing?” she asks, her eyebrows raised.
“Isn’t that why we’re meeting?”
“Yeah, but we obviously should study first and then move on to the fun stuff.” She pulls some books from her backpack. “I’m starting to understand why you’re flunking every subject in school.”
Pasha wants to say he understands why she doesn’t have many friends but bites his tongue. Not that he has many friends, but in his case, he doesn’t want them. Then, his mind does a double back. Did she just say ‘fun stuff’? Is this what she thinks ‘fun’ is?
“Before we begin, I need to know why you need English,” she says as more books emerge from her brown backpack. “Do we need to focus on reading or speaking or writing? And should we focus on British or American English?”
Pasha blinks. “Is there a difference?”
“Of course.” Sonya chuckles. “So, what’s the end goal?”
“Um.” Pasha twists his ear and considers lying to her, but remembers them sitting under this very tree, talking about Canada. There’s no point in lying now, after she saw him with the book. “I want to be able to talk to Naomi Rosenberg.”
He dares a peek at her again. Her face clears, and he doesn’t need to clarify — she nods. “Do you think she might offer someone a chance to study in Toronto?”
“I’m not sure. But she might.”
“Why her specifically? There have been so many others over the years.”
Pasha shrugs. Again, he considers not to tell her, but his body begins acting on its own, the way it did around her when they were little. “She seems nice. Genuine. Maybe it’s silly but I think it’s because she’s from Canada.”
“Not silly.”
Pasha avoids looking at Sonya but feels her eyes glued to him, making him fidget. Can’t she look anywhere else? Why is she always staring at him? Pasha keeps his eyes on people passing, pigeons and sparrows pecking the ground, and he waits for Sonya to stop looking at him. Finally, she does.
“So, here’s a dictionary for you.” She hands him a pocket dictionary with Russian and British flags coming together in the middle. “To see at what level you are now, we can start with speaking if that’s okay?”
She says something in English, and he stares at her, feeling the stupid flush coming over his face and ears again. She repeats, then says something else, all gibberish to him.
“Okay, so listening skill is, um, nonexistent.” She smiles, trying to soften her words.
“Same with speaking,” Pasha adds.
“Well, let’s try reading. Look what I brought.”
She shows Pasha the book, beaming as never before. Pasha recognised a boy with a lightning-bolt scar on the cover.
“Harry Potter!” she exclaims. “I thought it would be easier to read what you’ve already read in Russian.”
“I haven’t read it.”
Sonya’s expression changes in an instant — her eyes grow big, her mouth gapes open. It’s like her face can’t stay fixed, like it has to be in constant motion.
“Haven’t read Harry Potter?”
Pasha shrugs.
“Okay, we can still read it.”
She opens the book and puts it between her and Pasha. It's smaller than their geography encyclopaedia, and there’s more distance between them, yet he can’t help but remember. How many more warm memories they could’ve had together? He chucks the thought away.
He begins to read. Letters refuse to connect into words, and he trips easily, too aware of her keen eyes following the words and occasionally darting up at him. It’s a vulnerability he’s never experienced before — doing something you know you’re bad at in front of a person who’s really good at it. She probably notices all his mistakes, even those of which he’s unaware.
He finishes a paragraph, and for some time, Sonya doesn’t say anything, looking at the book and biting her lips. 
“Reading skill nonexistent?” Pasha asks.
She laughs, and it's the same laugh that’s been haunting him. Not that he said anything funny, it’s just Sonya. So easy to make her laugh. He fidgets on the ground again. Knowing her so well is disconcerting.
“Doesn’t matter.” She puts the book aside. “The priority is speaking, so let’s focus on it. Here, let me write some phrases that you can say to Naomi, and we’ll practice them.”
It takes them twenty minutes to get through five phrases, but Pasha feels confident enough when they practise a short dialogue with Sonya. She gives him the book and the notebook where she wrote the phrases.
“You can practice more at home.” As soon as she says it, her face darkens for a moment, and she darts her gaze to the ground. “I mean — you know — at pansion.”
Pasha doesn’t even catch it until Sonya corrects herself. Pansion certainly doesn’t feel like it’s his own place, but it’s as close to home as he can imagine. He puts the book in his bag but keeps the notebook in his hands. It has a blue and orange floral pattern on the cover. Something to keep his gaze on instead of facing Sonya; something to hold on to.
“What does your father think about it?” Sonya asks, bringing her knees closer to her chest. “You wanting to leave?”
Pasha’s mind races. How did she even remember him talking about his father? But then, he remembers many details about her as well, so it shouldn’t be that surprising. 
“Um, he supports me,” he finally says, squirming under the weight of his own lies.
“Do you see each other often?”
Tell the truth or lie again? Pasha opts for something in-between.“Not often. He lives in Obninsk, and he’s very busy at work.”
“Oh! Obninsk is just a couple hours away — we should go visit him.” Sonya beams. “It’ll be a part of you teaching me to be bad. I’ll tell my parents I’m spending the day with Alina, but really will get on a train and go to Obninsk with a boy they don’t know. I’ve never done anything like that!” Sonya is so ridiculously excited she even claps her hands. “We can go this weekend.”
In a split of a second, Pasha envisions millions of risks. Spending a whole day with Sonya. Having to tell her he lied about his father. Wasting money on a train ticket. And then the biggest risk — his father might not recognise him.
“I don’t think so.”
“Why?”
Pasha shrugs. 
“Ugh, you always do that,” Sonya says, laughter in her voice. “I mean — used to do it. You never asked me anything and you shrugged off whenever I asked you a question.”
“Like you always explained everything.”
“I did!” She rounds at him.
Pasha tears his gaze off the orange and blue pattern and faces her. “You never explained your paintings.”
She slumps a little, a deflated balloon. “Oh. Well. It was just me being a silly little kid. I don’t paint them anymore. So what’s the timeframe?” She changes the topic, her voice way too squeaky to be genuine. “I suppose you need to be able to talk to Naomi as soon as you can.”
“By the end of the school year for sure — that’s when she goes back.”
Sonya nods. “Two months. It’ll be difficult, but manageable. My sister wants us to take it slow with religion, but I know her. She is a constant wheel of motion. So I understand the rush.”
Pasha wants to ignore the mention of her sister and the memories it brings, but his body acts on its own yet again. “I guess she doesn’t know you’re with me, then?” There she goes. He asked her a question.
“Not really her business.”
“And what if she sees us?”
“She won’t.”
“She saw us here once. I remember how that ended.”
Pasha traces the pattern with his eyes, and Sonya stirs beside him.
“We’ll deal with it then. I’m really sorry I hurt you that time. I was stupid, too afraid of what my parents would say. You’re not mad at me about that, are you?”
Pasha can't find words. He’d never heard anyone apologise with such sincerity and bravery. Finally, he mutters, "I’m not mad.”
He raises his eyes at her, and she meets his gaze, unblinking. Seeing her so close after all these years makes him want to flee again, but also makes him want to stay here forever and relish in the familiarity of her wide-set eyes, blue as those paintings. He breaks the contact by taking a cigarette and a lighter from his pack.
“Ready?”
Sonya inhales as if she’s about to plunge herself into the deep end of the pool. She puts the cigarette between her fingers. They’re trembling slightly.
“Any tips?”
“Just don’t inhale too much.”
She nods, puts it between her lips, and he lights it, shielding the flame from the wind, their faces uncomfortably close. Then, she takes a first short drag, and lets out a thin wisp of smoke. She doesn’t say anything after the first drag, or the second, and her gaze is relaxed. He watches her in silence, snatching more familiar details. Her grey-blue stud earrings, similar to the ones she used to wear when they were little. Perhaps even the same? A tiny, almost inconspicuous mole on her nose where some girls have piercings. Small curls an the nape of her neck that have broken free from her bun and dance in the wind.
“Well,” she focuses her gaze on him, “I can declare with confidence now that I think smoking is disgusting.”
She says it in full seriousness, the way wine-tasters might do. Pasha has an urge to laugh, but only chuckles quietly.
Sonya’s eyes open wide. “Did I just see you smile?” 
Pasha quickly changes his face to neutrality.
“Yes, yes, I saw that!” She nearly touches the corner of his lips with her finger, laughing. “Wow, I made Pavel Aronov smile. I’ll mark this day in a calendar.” She takes another drag and squirms. “Bleh. Do you actually do it for pleasure?”
He shrugs. “A strange kind of pleasure.”
He opens the pack to take out another cigarette, but Sonya hands him the one she’s holding. 
“Let’s share this one. I won’t finish it on my own, and I’d hate to waste it. My head is already dizzy.”
Pasha takes a drag of the cigarette, then gives it back to her. Her lips touch the same place his were only a moment ago, and this simple act feels strangely more thrilling than intimate things he’s experienced before.
“So is it the first time you smiled this year?” Sonya asks him.
“Ha-ha,” he says sarcastically. “Don’t see the point of it.”
“Don’t see the point of smiling? Seriously?”
“Yeah. You, for example, smile all the time.” Sonya grins at this, probably thinking he paid her a compliment. “But it’s often fake,” he says, and, as he expected, Sonya’s grin dims a little. “You’re pretending most of the time. Sometimes you would smile, and the next second, when you think no one is watching, you’re sad. What’s the point?”
Perhaps he said too much. Perhaps he made it too obvious he’s been watching her, taking a glimpse at her here and there ever since that day she sat with someone else. She snatches a cigarette from his hand and takes a drag. He knows the trick.
“Now look who avoids answers.”
“I just want to be friendly. I’d hate for someone to think they’ve upset me or something.”
“You care a lot about what other people think.”
“What’s so wrong with that?”
Pasha shrugs again, and Sonya lets out an exasperated sigh.
“Seeing a person smile makes people feel better,” she says firmly, pronouncing each word with care. “I want people around me to be happy.”
Pasha thinks of Lev — he never smiles, yet he makes Pasha feel better anyway. A nasty tinge of betrayal spikes inside his chest at this thought. Why didn’t Lev tell Igor off as well as Pasha today? Why did he put his arm around him, protectively, as a father?
He takes a cigarette from Sonya, takes a final drag, and walks to the nearest bin to throw it away. When he turns around, Sonya is on her feet as well, a backpack swinging from one shoulder. He goes back to the tree.
“Thanks for the cigarette,” she says, smiling, of course. Hoping to make him feel better? “How much do I owe you?”
“Nothing. You’re helping me with studies so we’re even.”
“Oh. Are you su — “
“Yeah.”
“Okay. Let’s meet here on Friday after classes?”
Pasha nods.
“Study some more on your own, okay? We'll start with the dialogue.”
He nods again. She looks at him as if waiting for him to say something. 
“Bye,” he says. 
She gives him an awkward wave and walks away. Her coat is of the same blue as her eyes, as her paintings. Pasha grabs his own bag and walks home, realising on his way that the urge to kick something has been long gone.


Chapter Seven


The cafeteria rings with voices and a clank of utensils against plates as Sonya and Alina approach it. Sonya washes her hands with soap, then takes a special jar by the sinks and pours water three times on the right hand, three times on the left hand.  This is the ritual she’s been told to do since childhood — a special washing before eating bread — yet she doesn’t even know why she should. She’s not particularly interested to find out, either. All she cares about is the part that comes next.
They are not allowed to speak until they say the blessing and take a bite of bread, and nothing can compare to the anticipation as they enter the humming cafeteria, unable to speak, knowing that very soon they’ll join the buzz. She and Alina used to practice their made-up sign language when they were little, but now they can simply communicate through facial expressions and gestures. They still understand each other perfectly.
They fill their trays with food and pass Pasha as they go to a table further down the cafeteria. Pasha gives Sonya a nod. She smiles back, waving. Alina nudges her with her shoulder, a question in her eyes. How did the meeting go?
Sonya gives her thumbs up. They sit at the table, taking a piece of bread each. Sonya mouths the blessing — an automatic thing, like taking a breath or walking — and bites the bread.
“Any details on the meeting?” Alina asks as she downs a big spoon of her pea soup. Her appetite is probably what Mama hopes Sonya would catch from her, and yet Alina manages to remain tiny however much she eats. 
Sonya grins. “I tried smoking.”
“You hated it, didn’t you?”
“Yes, absolutely. I wonder what he’ll have for next time. Not — ” she lowers her voice “— you don’t think he’ll bring weed, do you?”
Alina moves closer to her over the table, a frown wrinkling her forehead. “Sonya? Why are you doing it, again?”
“I told you, I won’t be able to do all this stuff when we’re religious.”
“No, I meant, why are you following your family into it? Why won’t you tell them you don’t want it?”
Sonya takes her time finishing the soup and wiping it with a slice of bread. “I do want it.”
“It doesn’t sound like it to me,” Alina says. “It’s the same thing happening all over again — first music school, now this.”
Sonya moves a plate with mashed potatoes and a cutlet closer, keeping her eyes down. “It’s not the same. I just happen to agree with my parents. Becoming religious will be beneficial to our family. And as to music schools, I don’t even want to study in a conservatory that much anyway. It’s just something I’ve been thinking. It doesn’t matter.” 
“Don’t even want — ?” Alina gapes at her. “Are you serious?”
“Yeah.” Sonya shrugs, reminding herself of Pasha shrugging off her questions. “I can always keep playing as a hobby.”
“Sonya, it’s your parents talking. What’s wrong with wanting to study music anyway?”
A familiar nausea creeps up to Sonya, and she takes her eyes off her plate. “Alina, my papa is an accountant and my mama has two university degrees. They see anything that’s not an office or a science degree as a waste of time.”
“You don’t know until you ask them.”
Sonya does know. She knows what they’ll say. This sort of education is for those not smart enough to get to real universities where people learn stuff. Music is a hobby, not something you make money with. One in a thousand makes it big, and you need to have a real talent for it. And on and on and on.
Sonya looks around and spots Nina a few tables away from them, two blonde braids cascading down her back. “Why don’t you talk to Nina, then? You don’t know if she’ll like you until you talk to her.”
Same argument all over again. Alina doesn't respond. Instead, she takes the last bite off her cutlet and pops in the remains of her bread. 
“Come on,” Sonya says. “Take your own advice.”
“It’s not just that I’m afraid she wouldn’t like me.”
“What then?”
Alina rakes her hand through her hair, and her fringe falls neatly in its place. “It’s … I think she’s perfect. She’s beautiful, kind, humble, smart. What if I talk to her, and the illusion fades?”Alina does a gesture between shrugging and shaking her head. “I know it sounds selfish, but I like having this image of her in my mind. This knowledge that there’s this perfect, wonderful human being. I don't want it to disappear.”
“It’s the risk you’ll have to take.”
“There’s nothing to take a risk for! What are the chances she’s into girls? And if she is, what are the chances she likes me?”
“Well — ”
“Very-very slim. It’s not like I’m risking losing this perfect image for an important relationship, you know? I’m risking it for having a maybe friend that I’ll have a desperate crush on.”
Sonya pierces a piece of her cutlet with her fork but doesn’t eat it. She glances at Pasha. He sits with other boys from pansion, talking with them in his fast manner, and his plate is sparkling clear. He doesn’t smile, of course, but she remembers making him chuckle the other day.
“You know what?” Sonya finally says. “People might surprise you. I thought it would be awkward with Pasha, after us not talking for so long. I — I sort of had this image, too, of Pasha from the past. This boy who understood me and to whom I could tell anything in the world. And I was afraid he might now be one of those pansion guys that only care about skipping school and drinking beer on the playground. And the thing is that he’s not like that, but he’s not that boy from my childhood as well.” Sonya halts. “He’s different, someone I couldn’t imagine him to be. And I like it. It might be the same with Nina. I’d say, take the chance.”
Alina bites her pinkie nail, contemplating. Then, she gapes at something behind Sonya, her face flushing, her hand dropping down. Sonya swerves her head around, and there’s Nina walking in their direction, an empty tray in her hands. She is about to pass, when Sonya nudges Alina with her foot under the table. She hits a chair leg instead, cringing with pain.
Alina clears her throat.
“Hey, Nina! I really loved your singing last week.”
Nina halts, smiles at Alina, her cheeks tinged with pink. “Oh, thank you!” She says it with a note of surprise, as if she isn’t aware of just how heavenly her voice is.
“Will you be singing this Friday as well?” Alina’s voice sounds low and gruff after Nina’s high-pitched one.
“No, but we’re prepping a little performance for school Passover.”
“Well, now there’s something to look forward to.”
Nina blushes even more and chuckles. “We have a sports class together now, right?”
“Right.” Alina licks her lips — Sonya can only imagine how nervous she is, even though she doesn’t show it — and stands up, taking her tray. “We can go together.”
Sonya takes a sip of her juice. “You go, I’ll catch up.”
Alina gives her a ‘thank you’ look, and she and Nina leave together. Nina is much taller than a bird-like Alina, but they walk in unison, talking on their way. Sonya feels giddy, as if it was she who has just talked to her crush. She glances at Pasha again, thinking he might catch her glance, but his seat is already empty.
#
 Sports class is the last for the day, and Sonya quickly changes to her Rolling Stones shirt and jeans, tiny ants of anticipation making her restless. She thought it’d be easier to meet Pasha the second time, but she finds it harder to keep calm than last time. His words about her pretending to smile still sting.
Days are getting warmer, and the park is more crowded today. Almost every bench is taken, and most people have taken off their coats, baring their necks and forearms for the first warm sun rays. Sonya takes off her own blue coat, spreads it carefully on the ground and sits on top.
Only a few moments pass before Pasha walks towards her, his gait awkward as if he’s not sure if he wants to go forward or run away in another direction. His brown jacket is thrown over his messenger bag, and he doesn’t wear his kippah for their meeting, just as Sonya wears her jeans, not the school skirt.
“How are you?” she asks.
“Fine.”
He sits beside her, shoulder to shoulder, and a familiar scent comes from him. He is busy rummaging in his bag, and she bends a little towards him, inhaling. How could she ever forget that smell? The one that reminded her of spring and of blooming flowers. But there’s something else mixed — some fresh, lemony notes. Is he wearing a cologne?
“I thought we’d try alcohol today.” Pasha shows her a box wine with pink grapes on the cover that looks no different from a juice box she drinks in the mornings. 
“Phew. Glad you didn’t bring vodka.”
“Oh, come on. We want to enjoy ourselves a little, don’t we?”
As soon as he says it, his face turns red. He fumbles with putting the box back in the bag, turning his face away from her. Sonya can’t keep from grinning. Before an awkward silence has a chance to stretch, she grabs books and a notebook from her backpack.
“But first, we study,” she says.
They practice the dialogue from their last meeting, and Pasha remembers everything. He must have studied. Sonya didn’t expect he would and gave him the easiest phrases last time. Now that she knows he can handle it, she writes him more complex sentences, and they practice them. Then, he reads more of Harry Potter. He has a strong accent, one which Sonya herself works really hard to get rid of, but from him, it comes differently. Endearing. He stops when he finishes the chapter, keeping his gaze on the lines.
“There’s one book I found — um, bought. It’s called ‘The Road’. It’s in English and Naomi saw it and said she liked it. At least that’s what I thought she said.” He says it fast, words stumbling into each other, racing to get out. This is something she noticed him doing that Pasha from her childhood didn’t do. As if he’s afraid she will stand and leave before he gets a chance to finish the sentence. “Could you give me some phrases so I can ask her about it?”
“Oh, sure!” Sonya writes a line in a notebook, a translation, then a transcription of a few words. “Do you want to read that book instead of Harry Potter?”
“Um, no, this one is fine.”
“So you’re starting to enjoy it?”
Pasha shrugs. As always.
“Wait till you get to the good bits. The Hogwarts stuff. I wonder what house you are. I’m a Hufflepuff. Alina says it’s the lamest house — she’s a Gryffindor — but I don’t agree. They’re kind and hard-working and humble.”
Pasha still keeps his eyes on the book between them, unsmiling, and she can almost hear thoughts turning in his head like gears. Does he think she is annoying because she talks too much? Does he think she is faking her smiles when she’s with him? Is he thinking of something unrelated to her at all?
They don’t stop on English and move on to maths and literature. Pasha catches everything at once, his brain working fast, his memory strong. As it gets colder, Sonya puts on her blue coat, and Pasha follows her example.
When they finish studying, Sonya stands up and stretches her muscles. The sky has already turned orange and pink, and traffic starts to build at the road by the park, with cars honking, eager to get moving.
Sonya catches Pasha watching her, then averting his eyes as soon as she notices him. A blush creeps to his ears, and she holds the urge to comment. He’d just shrug it off anyway. 
Pasha takes the wine out of his bag again. “Ready for part two of your training?”
She laughs and joins him on the now colder ground. She takes the box from him, unscrews the cap and takes a sip. It’s sour, like a juice gone spoiled. Pasha watches her, same as when she was trying to smoke. He must think she looks so silly. He probably knows many girls who can smoke and drink with confidence, whose hands don’t shake, who aren’t afraid of breaking the rules. She takes one more sip, unable not to twist her face.
“Yuck. Are you sure this is even wine?”
“What else can it be?”
“Dunno. Grape juice mixed with vodka?”
She regrets it the moment she says it. Pasha frowns, turns away and purses his lips. It’s clearly a very cheap wine, but he still went to the shop to buy it for her. Spent his own money that he earned by working in a library every Sunday. Sonya beams at him apologetically, a familiar habit, but Pasha doesn’t react. She takes another sip.
She rummages her brain to try to say something nice, but nothing comes to her mind. Would it kill him to smile and break the awkward tension once in a while? Why should she be always the one to do it? Another sip. 
Whatever. Let them sit in an awkward silence if he wants to. She takes another sip, and its warmth and sourness spill inside her. It seems to taste better and better with each sip. She brings the box to her lips again.
“Go easy, okay?”
Pasha’s hand pulls at the box, stopping it from reaching her lips, nearly touching her hand. For a second, their eyes meet, and she catches warm amber and cocoa and bitter chocolate inside. Sonya offers him the wine, but he shakes his head.
“What, you poisoned it or something?”
He doesn’t frown this time, only raises a brow. It looks rather graceful when he does it. “You opened it yourself.”
“Why no, then?”
If he shrugs it off, she’ll pinch him. Thoughts don’t sound right in her head anymore, and this doesn’t seem like the best idea, but who cares?
Luckily for him, he replies, rushing his words out again. “I’d better stay clear-headed and look after you. Who knows what drunk Sonya Selvinskaya might do.”
“How do you know I’ll get drunk?” Sonya rounds at him and says with a voice that feels strangely unlike her own. She takes another — smaller — sip and her hands don’t really feel like her own as well.
“Since you haven’t tried alcohol before, I’m pretty sure you’re already tipsy.”
Sonya tries to raise one brow same as he did before, forgetting that she can’t do it. She must look funny because Pasha battles the urge to laugh. She wishes he would laugh.
“Tipsy? I don’t — I’m not.”
“Right.”
“For your information, I have tried alcohol before. Shabbat wine.”
“That’s not alcohol. It’s a grape juice, they just call it wine.”
Sonya takes a sip and almost spits it all up. “Wait … seriously?”
Pasha tries to contain his laughter again, edges of his lips turned up, tensed. Come on. Just laugh. “You thought it was real?”
“Shut up.” Sonya nudges his shoulder with her own. Funny — she wouldn’t have done something like this even an hour ago. She would’ve thought it inappropriate, afraid of Pasha turning away again, averting his eyes, thinking she was too much. Now she couldn’t care less. As if a control button in her head has been switched off. As if she’s not even herself — she’s someone else. Someone brave and unapologetic, as she is when she plays piano on her own in a music room.
 Sonya takes another small sip.“You know what? It’s Friday evening, we’re out, drinking wine. It’s like we’re on a date.”
Pasha drops his gaze. Of course he does. She is, probably, supposed to be embarrassed, but she doesn’t care. She keeps going.
“So let’s go to Obninsk to see your dad? Tomorrow?”
“I — I don’t think so.”
“Why?”
He shrugs. Sonya turns to face him and moves closer, so close that she spots freckles on his cheeks she didn’t even remember he had. So close, the lemony scent overwhelms her.
“Why?” she repeats.
He begins to shrug again, but she pokes him in the chest.
“No. No shrugging off my questions. Why?”
Pasha gulps but doesn’t move away. “I just don’t think it's a good idea.”
“I think it's a great idea. You told me you haven’t seen each other in a while.”
“As I said, he’s busy. It’ll be inconvenient to him.”
“Tomorrow’s Saturday. And I’m sure he’ll make time for his son.”
Pasha shrugs again, and a wave of frustration rises inside Sonya. She takes another sip, waiting for the familiar warmth to spill down her throat, to her chest, where all her secrets hide.
“You know why I want to go to Obninsk? Because all my life I’ve been quiet and obedient. And if I embrace religion and follow my parents and Anya, that means I’ve been quiet and obedient again. Then I’ll be someone’s shadow all over again. But when will I be myself? I mean, when will I do things I want to do?”
She waits for him to ask her what she wants to do. He has his eyes glued to the box wine she’s holding.
“I want to study in a conservatory, to compose music. I want piano keyboards to be the continuation of my fingers. I want to live and breathe music. I don’t know if that even makes sense, but I want it.”
Pasha doesn’t acknowledge he heard her in any way. Sonya turns away from him, staring at the honking cars.
“There’s no freedom in the music school here. It’s all about rules and structure and learn this and repeat that. I want to play Elton John or Regina Spektor or my own stuff. But I won’t ever do it, I won’t study in a conservatory because my parents wouldn’t ever allow it, and I’m a ‘good girl’, a nice and obedient daughter. And you know what I do? I pretend I don’t want it. I pretend I’m okay with having music as my hobby so as not to disappoint my parents.”
Sonya isn’t sure where this is coming from, she didn’t even know she had these thoughts inside her. She feels flushed, hot, burning from the inside.
“And I’m too scared to change that. And this suffocates me so much that I’m — ” Sonya bites her tongue. She’s not that drunk as to tell Pasha about the dreams. “I’m too damn scared to actually do anything about it. So, this is my rebellion. Seeing you, drinking and smoking and lying to them and going to Obninsk. It’s a small rebellion, but that’s all I have.”
As she turns to Pasha, she can’t believe what she sees. Pasha smiles, actually smiles, awe twinkling in his eyes, his lips slightly parted.
“Small rebellion,” he almost whispers. “I like it.”
“You have such a beautiful smile,” she drawls.
His face flushes red again, and he turns away, his smile vanishing. “Um. Yeah.”
Laughter erupts from her chest. “Wow. We really need to work on your skills of accepting compliments.”
He smiles again, and her heart does a somersault. He takes wine from Sonya and takes a sip. “Let’s squeeze it somewhere between Harry Potter and maths.”
She laughs again, and now they are sharing the wine, the way they did with the cigarette. Thrill spills inside her, mixing up with warmth from the wine, and the silence doesn’t feel awkward anymore. She leans back against the trunk of the maple tree, their shoulders touching, and watches people and cars pass them by.
Things around her seem to be out of her reality, as if she sneaked into a parallel world where Sonya is brave, where Pasha laughs, where they have been best friends for the past eight years. A few minutes go by in silence, and she glimpses his hand lying beside hers. Would that be weird if she takes his hand? Would the moment be spoiled? Is he thinking of taking her hand or does he not think about her in that way? Wait — does she think about him in that way?
Sonya peers into Pasha, trying to gather her thoughts and feelings. He meets her eyes and interrupts her buzzing thoughts.
“Let’s do it.”
“Huh?”
“Your small rebellion. Let’s go to Obninsk tomorrow.”


Chapter Eight


The train is full — yet another evidence that the spring has finally broken out, and the dacha season is in full swing. Sonya and Pasha manage to find two seats in front of each other, scooting towards the windows. Beside them are two elderly ladies wearing heavy makeup, and a man in a sports jacket. The hum of conversation echoes throughout the train, and Pasha catches several people making comments on how the train is overpacked, they way it never used to be during Soviet times. 
They start moving, gaining speed, swaying lightly. Sonya gazes out of the window, her eyes agonisingly blue, her hair catching spring sun. She has her curls loose, shaggy, creating a messy halo around her face. Her ears stick out a little and her teeth are rather big — is she self-conscious about these things? He hopes she’s not. There’s nothing better than a flawed beauty. These small details make it impossible for him to look away. 
Sonya’s eyes dart towards him, and he turns away, praying she didn’t catch him staring. His whole face burns, and his armpits turn wet. He doesn’t usually stare at girls, doesn’t blush like an idiot, and he hates that he does it now. As if he is that nine-year-old boy again. With his side vision, he can see Sonya is beaming with that wide smile of hers that seems to fill half her face.
“Excited?” she asks.
More like terrified, he wants to say but just nods. His father gave him to pansion’s care when Pasha was around five. He visited a few times after that, never staying for long, until he just stopped coming. Who’s to say he wants to see his son? Who’s to say he would even recognise him?
“Me too,” Sonya says. “I’m so glad you agreed to come after all. I told my parents I’m spending all day with Alina, she’s gonna cover for me. My parents are in full conversion mode. I think it does them good.”
As always, Sonya tells everything what’s on her mind without being asked. Let her. Pasha doesn’t care as long as she doesn’t stare at him or ask him anything. Her voice is actually quite soothing.
“They were arguing a lot, but it’s as if this thing connected them, you know? It’s nice. They wanted me to go to this seminar with them, and that’s when I told them I would be with Alina. I’ve never lied to them before. So much fun!”
One of the elderly women next to them turns to Sonya with a reproachful look only a babushka is capable of. Sonya gives her a side look, and lowers her voice.
“Anyway, I was thinking, maybe we should cover up that black-eye?”
“What for?”
“Dunno, I thought maybe you didn’t want your father to know that — um — you know.”
That I’m trouble? he wants to say but instead mumbles, “Doesn’t matter.” None of it would matter if his father won’t even recognise him or would tell him he doesn’t want to see him.
“Why do you fight so much, anyway? Lately more than usual.”
Pasha shrugs. Sonya just loves asking personal questions, not realising that some people wouldn’t want to share these things the way she does. What annoys him more is that he sort of wants to tell her, to share. As if that nine-year-old boy who thought Sonya was his best friend — his only friend — is still alive inside him.
But the silence has been getting long enough that it would be weird if Pasha answers now. Perhaps it’s for the best.
He sneaks a glimpse at her, and she’s still watching him. Screw it. He’ll tell her. “It’s my new roommate. The biggest idiot you can imagine.”
“Who?”
“Igor. The new guy.”
Sonya cringes. “Ugh, he is the biggest idiot you can imagine. And you actually have to live with that half-baked imbecile?”
Pasha presses his lips together so as not to laugh and nods. Half-baked imbecile. He would use it next time Igor bothers him.
“You poor thing. Still, why would you fight with him all the time? Must be exhausting. And painful.”
“It’s … adrenaline rush. Losing control can be liberating.”
Sonya raises her eyebrows. “So you enjoy it?”
“Yeah. He enjoys it too. And I’m easily provoked. A perfect recipe for a black-eye.”
“Probably should stay away from fighting if you want to impress Naomi, though,” she says, her voice light, chuckling. Not a trace of judgment.
Pasha nods. “I kind of made a promise to myself to not get into fights anymore. Not that I kept it.”
“I’ll be your witness. So you definitely can’t break the promise now.” She beams.
Pasha had only been this honest with one person before — Lev. This reflex of telling Sonya the truth is getting annoying. But — Pasha realises with relief — not bad annoying. Not bees-buzzing-in-his-chest annoying and not want-to-kick-something annoying. No, this is an exciting sort of annoying.
#
Pasha gazes up at a nine-storied grey building. This is it. Whatever happens now, Pasha won’t be able to make up stories about a father who misses him anymore. Whatever illusion he has now will be shattered forever.
Why did he even agree to it? Pasha remembers Sonya talking about her small rebellion, her eyes sparkling alive the way they have never before, with despair and fierce energy. She sparked something inside him, too.
She nudges him. “What are we waiting for?”
“Um. Yeah, let’s go.” 
He enters the door code, and they go inside. The building has a musty smell. Worn-out mailboxes line the wall, covered by ugly graffiti and swear words. Pasha presses the button, and they enter the lift. It’s so old, that if it gets stuck, Pasha won’t be even a little surprised. Perhaps it won’t be a bad thing — at least they won’t have to go and face his father. 
There’s no mirror, and Pasha keeps his head down, feeling Sonya’s eyes on him. He shouldn’t have taken her with him. If his father closes the door right before their noses, that would be devastating enough, but to have Sonya there, realising he had lied, realising how pathetic he was to come up with the lie … That was too much.
The lift stops, and Sonya comes out first. Pasha takes a breath and follows her. Every new step, he wants to turn back, run so fast he’ll become a blur and disappear into the ether. He hopes Sonya will get an urgent call and has to leave. He hopes the earthquake starts, and they’d have to flee. He hopes he rings the doorbell, and no one would answer. He hopes — 
They’re standing in front of the door, and Sonya smiles at him. He tries to look as nonchalant as he can and rings the doorbell. A few seconds pass.
“I guess there’s no one home — ”
The door opens. A man with a scruffy beard looks at them. He’s tall, way taller than Pasha, and his shirt hangs on him as on a hanger. Pasha has seen his parents’ pictures, and he should know this, but he’s not sure if the man is his father. 
“Hello,” Pasha says. “Ilya Aleksandrovich?”
“Uh-huh. You are?”
“Um. Pasha.”
The man’s long face doesn’t move a muscle, as if he’s been turned to stone. There it is. His father doesn’t remember him. If Pasha could fall through the ground into the abyss right here and now, he would, leaving behind this tall stranger and all the dreams and expectations.
Then, a huge grin leaps on the man’s face. “Of course! Pasha! Didn’t expect you. Come in, come in.”
A hurricane rises inside Pasha’s chest, and he can't move his feet. Sonya nudges him, and they walk inside. From a tiny hallway still stuffed with winter shoes, Pasha can see the rest of the apartment. A small kitchen to the right side. A room with a bed to the left side. A door leading to what Pasha guesses is a bathroom.
“Come on, take off your shoes.” Ilya — his father — laughs with small notes of jitters. His voice is ragged as if he hasn’t used it much lately. “What’s your name, gorgeous?”
“Oh, me?” Sonya beams while unzipping her boots. “Sonya.”
“Lovely. Wow, that’s a surprise, Pasha. Here, take these.” He throws a couple of man’s house slippers at their feet.
With the three of them, the hall is overcrowded and when Pasha takes off his boots, he bumps into Sonya with his elbow. Ilya nearly steps on his toes as he trudges to the kitchen.
“Come on, wash your hands,” he says.
Sonya has already disappeared inside the bathroom, Ilya has gone to the kitchen, and Pasha is left in the hall, his feet drowning in his father’s green slippers. His father’s slippers. He can’t wrap his mind around what’s happening. 
Before he can process anything, Ilya appears in the doorway.  “I’m making tea.” He gestures at the bathroom and disappears in the kitchen again.
Pasha joins Sonya near the sink. He takes a Soviet odourless soap from the counter — something they don’t use even at pansion — and puts his hands under warm water. Sonya is close to him, buzzing with excitement, and their eyes meet in the mirror.
“He’s so happy to see you!” 
She grabs Pasha’s forearm and squeezes it. Sonya’s smile is half her face again, and the next second she is gone.
He follows her to the kitchen. A square table, covered in red and white floral tablecloth, stands by the wall. All the furniture is Soviet, worn-out, yet so familiar, Pasha wonders if this is the apartment where he lived before pansion became his home. A dirty ashtray sits on the table, and the sink is full of unwashed dishes. 
Ilya stands by the table, wringing his wrists. “Sorry it’s messy, didn’t expect guests. Sit down, sit down, kids.”
Sonya sits on the chair that squeaks under her, but Ilya touches Pasha’s arm before he can move.
“Let me look at you. You’re a handsome fella, aren’t you? Not particularly tall, but the eyes compensate.”
He looks at Pasha for several long moments, and Pasha gets a chance to peer into his father’s features as well. Long face, high forehead, big, almost child-like brown eyes. The same shade of brown as his own. His teeth are slightly yellow, and there’s a strong cigarette smell coming from him.
The moment is over too soon, and Ilya gently slaps Pasha on the cheek and puts a bowl with oat biscuits on the table. 
“Here, I don’t have much, but you can eat it. Kids eat anything sweet, don’t they?”
He gives a ragged, barking laugh. The kettle whistles, and Ilya pours tea into three cups, spilling half of the liquid on the table, his hands shaking so much. He uses one tea bag for all three cups. Pasha tries to take a bite of the oat biscuit, but it’s so stale, he’s afraid for his teeth. 
“So, how’s school?” Ilya asks as if the last time they saw each other was last week, not twelve years ago.
“It’s okay.” Pasha tries to smile, but it comes out crooked, unnatural. His stomach goes wild with nerves. He should say something else, elaborate, but his mind is blank.
“He’s studying really hard,” Sonya fills in the pause. “It’s our final year, as you know.”
“Oh, final year, right, right.” Ilya scratches at his neck, chuckling. “So you go to that Etz Chaim school as well, Sonya?”
“Yes.”
“Good, good. How’s Lev Aleksandrovich? Still works in pansion?”
Ilya knowing Lev makes sense, but Pasha’s mind can’t even imagine the two of them in one room. If one is the image of serenity and cleanliness, another is all jagged edges and nerves. “Uh, yeah. He does.”
A pause again. What else can Pasha say? That Lev is the closest thing to a father he has? That Lev kept nudging him to call his father all these years, and Pasha kept replying with ‘why wouldn’t he call first?’? That even this tiny, crappy apartment with a real, smiling parent would’ve been so much better than pansion ever was?
Ilya sips his tea, slurping. “And how’s — er — ” He closes his mouth, fiddling with a label of his tea bag. “Okay if I smoke?”
Pasha and Sonya nod, and Ilya takes a cigarette pack from his pocket. Pasha’s heart skips a bit — it’s the same brand he smokes. Ilya offers him one, and he accepts it without hesitation. If anything can help him untie that stress knot in his stomach, it’s a good old cigarette. Pasha lights it, and, his eyes closed, takes a long drag, inhales, exhales. His muscles loosen up at once. When he opens his eyes, Sonya holds a cigarette as well. Her fingers are too strained, and she doesn’t inhale smoke, same as she did that time under their tree.
“You, Sonya, are not a smoker, I see?” Ilya gives her a friendly kind of a chuckle.
Still, Sonya blushes. She gives Pasha a little smile over the table, barely conspicuous, so personal. She was right to make him go. And since they’re already here, it’s Pasha’s time to make an effort. 
He gathers all his courage before he speaks. “And how are you?” 
“Oh, great, son. Job’s busy, but I’m enjoying it.”
At least Pasha guessed this one right.
“What do you do?” Sonya asks.
“Sales. Kitchen appliances mostly. Might get promoted soon.”
“Sounds … fun?” Sonya tries.
Pasha tries a few more questions, but the conversation falls apart. A heavy silence spreads through the kitchen, and a lightbulb’s hum above them sounds like a racket. Sonya sips her tea, half of her cigarette resting against an ashtray. Pasha’s leg starts to tremble, and he stops it, but after a while, it begins again. Ilya’s fingers drum against the surface of the table. Then, he stubs out his cigarette, raises himself and opens the freezer. 
“How old are you, kids?”
“Seventeen.”
Ilya waves his hand. “Old enough.” He grabs a bottle of vodka, opens the cap and pours the crystal clear liquid into three shot glasses. He puts one in front of each and raises his own. “Well, kids. Let’s drink for the meeting.”
He knocks back his drink before Pasha or Sonya get a chance to say no. They exchange glances as Ilya grabs a jar of pickles from the fridge, and Pasha sees his own loss in Sonya’s eyes. She sips the clear liquid and screws her face. Pasha takes a gulp as well. He can barely taste anything, only a burning of ice on his lips that slips down his throat, into his stomach. Sonya puts aside her shot, bites a biscuit and gulps some tea. He follows her example.
Ilya empties yet another shot with one gulp and bites into a pickle. Then another. He leans against a chair’s back, not wringing his wrists anymore.
“So, that black-eye,” he says, and his voice has changed somehow. It lost its roughness, and now it booms across the kitchen. “Not getting into any trouble, Pasha?”
The stupid flush creeps over Pasha’s face, and he hopes Ilya would stop looking at him for a moment. Pasha stares at his cup, trying to find words, watching a few biscuit crumbs float on the surface. Ilya refills three shots to the brim.
“Ha! You can’t hide anything from your old man. I saw it the moment you walked in. That black-eye screams that you’re trouble.”
“Pasha isn’t trouble,” Sonya says. “His new roommate is just a complete imbecile.”
Pasha dares to look at her. She holds a teacup with both hands even though their tea has gone cold. He wishes he was looking at her when she said ‘Pasha isn’t trouble’ so that he’d be sure he didn’t imagine it.
“Eh, nothing wrong about getting into fights,” Ilya says, slurring his words. “I sported quite a few of those when I was your age.”
“Well, it’s not particularly healthy, you know,” Sonya says.
Ilya chuckles and looks at Pasha. “Women don’t understand this rush, huh, Pashka? They say we shouldn’t fight, but we know better.” He pours more vodka for himself. “That’s how men let out their steam.”
“There are other ways to let out steam,” Sonya says, a crinkle forming between her eyebrows.
“Like what?”
“Like … talking to people. Or dancing till you can’t even stand or singing at the top of your lungs. Or crying your eyes out. Or — ”
“Crying?” Ilya snorts. “Leave that to women. Women cry, men fight. That’s how it is.”
Sonya turns bright red as she scowls at Ilya, but she sits still, fingers fidgeting with a biscuit in her hand.
Another shot, then another. After a few long, agonising minutes of Ilya rambling on and on, only occasional hiccups daring to cut him short, he falls silent, looking at Pasha with an intense, long stare. 
“You look so much like Nadya,” he says.
Pasha freezes. 
“You have her nose, her forehead. You talk like her — fast and quiet.”
Ilya’s heavy arm falls on Pasha’s shoulder, nearly knocking him off the chair. Deep silence hovers above them. A clock on the wall goes tick, tick, tick. Pasha wants to cough, to fidget, to break the silence, but at the same time, he wants this moment to never end. Then, his Ilya’s hand leaves his shoulder.
“Wait, I’ll show you something.” He raises himself, swaying, and stumbles to the other room.
“Pasha, are you okay?”
Sonya’s whisper is shaky, but there’s no time to answer, because Ilya is back. He hands Pasha a flower-shaped brooch, big enough to fit half his palm. Its petals are golden, shaped in intricate patterns, and its middle is a bright, glowing amber.
“It’s damn expensive, so be careful with it,” Ilya says. “Nadya got it from her ma. That’s why it’s so ugly — that old crone had no taste. But Nadya loved it.” Ilya’s face melts into a reminiscent smile. “She never wore it because she was afraid it would get lost or god knows what.”
Pasha holds on to the brooch. It doesn't belong to this sad, dirty apartment, surrounded by these squeaking chairs and dirty ashtrays, its beautiful amber glistening under a cheap kitchen lamp. It’s too precious to even be held by Pasha’s hands, his hands that don’t know real beauty, his hands that touch objects fifty other orphans touch in pansion, hundreds of other children touch in school, millions of other people touch everywhere around Moscow. No, it was only supposed to be held by his mother.
Pasha’s vision gets blurry as his eyes start to water. “Can I — ” he lets out a shuddering breath “ — take it?”
“What do you mean ‘take it’?”
“Take it with me? I’d love to have something that belonged to mum.”
Ilya grabs the brooch from him. “Of course not. It’s too valuable.”
“You’re not going to sell it, are you?” Sonya asks, her voice quiet.
“I’m going to do with it what I need to do with it, gorgeous.”
More tears threaten to spring, and Pasha directs all his energy onto staying calm, taking deep breaths and not bursting into tears in his father’s kitchen.
“What the hell is wr — wrong with you, huh?” Ilya growls and sits by the table again, almost knocking off his tea mug.
Pasha turns away, biting his lips. Just breathe in and out. Just don’t fucking cry. Sonya’s chair squeaks.
“Pasha?” comes her voice.
Pasha wishes she wouldn’t. Hearing her voice and knowing she witnessed all of it only makes it more difficult to calm down.
Ilya babbles on again, and when Pasha’s eyes are finally dry, he looks at him. A shot glass is in his right hand; the brooch in his left hand, the one that’s been holding a pickle moments ago. Sonya stands up and goes towards the bathroom, grazing Pasha’s shoulder on the way. When she closes the door, Ilya bends closer to Pasha over the table. 
“So, man to man,” he says, his breath reeking of alcohol. “I’m sure girls go crazy over you, don’t they? How many girls have you slept with?”
Pasha’s tongue freezes in his mouth, and all he can do is stare at Ilya.
“Come on, don’t be shy. What the old man is for, anyway?”
Pasha diminishes under Ilya’s gaze. Is that what a father and a son are supposed to be talking about? He makes sure Sonya is still in the bathroom and lowers his voice. “Um. Two.”
“Two, huh? Don’t worry, you’re only seventeen, everything’s ahead of you.” Ilya pats his shoulder and takes another gulp. “Whole world’s ahead of you, son. And what about — ?” He jerks his head towards the bathroom.
A vile, ugly slime spreads in the pit of Pasha’s stomach. “What about her?”
“Got busy with her yet?”
“No,” he says, his voice shaking.
“Ah, gotcha. I knew as soon as I saw her that she’s one of those play-hard-to-get girls. But she’s worth the chase. Gorgeous girl. A little shy, but you know what they say about shy girls?” Ilya moves even closer, the amber brooch still clutched in his fist. “They can be a hurricane in bed.”
Pasha clenches his teeth, a familiar buzz filling him, threatening to burst through. He wants to hurl that stupid vodka bottle across the kitchen, to yell so much his voice would break, to shake Ilya so that he would turn into that awkward, wrist-wringing, chuckling man who opened the door.
“You know what?” Ilya interrupts his thoughts. “I can make it easier for you. Get that girl some wine, you know — ”
Pasha springs up from his chair, trying to hold his fists in place. “Just shut up! Shut the fuck up!”
The bathroom door opens, and Sonya stares at them from the hall.
Ilya leans against his chair, pointing a finger at Pasha. “Hey, don’t you be yelling at me in my apart — ”
“Don’t you be telling me what to do! Don’t act like you’re my — like you’ve been there this whole time. And don’t talk like that about my friend. You’re not — ”
“Not what you expected?” Ilya raises his own voice, gulping his words. “You wanted some high-brow university professor as a daddy? Someone to teach you play chess?”
It’s his father. The only chance to have a real family. If Pasha leaves now, there’s no going back. If he tears the thread now, he won’t have a father anymore, not even an imaginary one. Pasha repeats it in his mind, again and again, hoping Ilya would apologise or time would turn backwards to before he took that bottle out of the freezer.
But nothing happens.
Pasha rushes into the hall. “We’re leaving.” He puts on his boots, not wasting time to tie the laces.
Sonya looks from him to Ilya and back. Then, as if she gets that there’s no time for an explanation, she puts on her own boots, not bothering to zip them. Pasha has never felt more grateful to anyone.
“Pavel, stop being hysterical.” Ilya tries to stand up, hands gripping the edge of the table.
Pasha opens the door, rushes out of the apartment, and before Sonya closes it, he hears swearing and the sound of a chair tumbling down.
#
Pasha jumps three steps at a time, sprints out of the building, his heart pounding and echoing somewhere in his head. His shoes are still untied, and he stumbles over, nearly falling down. He stuffs his shoelaces into his shoes and keeps going forward. He registers Sonya zipping her boots on her way, hopping on one leg, then another, then rushing after him.
Past the apartment buildings, across the road, into an empty park. Pasha waits for a rock inside his throat to dissolve, but Ilya’s voice and the cigarette smell and the burning of vodka on his lips and that stupid, stale biscuit all come back to him.
“Pasha? Where are we going?”
He doesn’t answer.
“Hey.”
He just wants Sonya to disappear, to not witness any more of his messy, embarrassing, laughable life. The nasty balloon inflates inside his chest. He spots a bench beside him and kicks it hard, pain coursing through his foot, not bringing the relief. He kicks it again and again.
“Hey, it’s okay.”
Screw promises to be good and be better and to stop fighting. As if he even had a chance. Pasha kicks the bench one last time, collapses onto it, and before he can do anything to prevent it, the balloon pops, and he’s crying like he’s never cried before.
His breaths almost strangle him, and he bends in two, burying his hands in his hair, but soon there’s warmth beside him. Sonya’s arms cover his shoulders and back like a blanket. He yields to her, tucking his face into her blue coat, wailing at the top of his voice.
Soon, his throat begins to hurt; his whole face, and probably Sonya’s coat, is covered in tears and snot. Soon, Ilya’s voice in his head grows dimmer. Soon, his chest unclenches, and relief comes. The only thing that doesn’t change is Sonya’s hands, gripping him tight, and her warmth around him. 
Pasha sits straight, wiping his face with his sleeves, trying to breathe in and out, looking around. The park is empty apart from them and a couple of sparrows. Pasha drops his eyes to the ground, kicking small rocks with his toe, and his breaths come in shudders.
“I’m sorry,” he finally says, his voice hoarse. 
“Don’t be. Please. There’s nothing shameful in that.”
“Course there is.”
“No. It’s your father talking. It’s crap, and you know it. Guys can cry however much they want. And girls sure as hell can fight.”
He chuckles — something he was sure he wouldn’t be able to do in a long time. “You wanted to punch him, didn’t you?”
“Oh yes. I even thought, how fitting, that could be a part of me learning to be bad.”
He laughs now, not bothering with controlling himself, glad to shake off the heaviness from his chest. He doesn’t even remember the last time he laughed. Sonya’s hand finds his shoulder again and squeezes it.
Pasha takes a deep breath, still staring at the ground, hoping Sonya won’t take off her hand. “I lied to you, you know. About my father. Well, you’ve probably guessed it by now. I didn’t have any contact with him since he gave me to pansion. I was around five, I think.” Pasha drags his toes against the ground, making nonsensical patterns. “I had his number and address, and I knew he had mine. First, I was too little to call, but when I grew up, I didn’t know what to say. How to start a conversation. I kept postponing it. And in the end, my imaginary dad was so great, I almost didn’t want to meet the real one. Now I realise it was a great idea.”
“I’m so sorry,” Sonya says, her voice a soothing spring. “But at least now you know. Isn’t it better than to lie to yourself about a perfect father?”
Pasha recalls Ilya’s friendly chuckles and the same brand of cigarettes, and his strong hand patting his shoulder. He licks his lips before speaking. “Don’t you think he was — you know, when we first came in — he was sort of nice? Not a perfect father, of course, but he seemed … ”
“Nice, yeah. Still, you said he had your phone number as well. He could’ve called you. It’s been, what, twelve years? That makes him less nice in my opinion. It’s his loss, Pasha.” 
Pasha gives her a bitter chuckle. “No, it’s not. He clearly doesn’t care if I’m there or not. But I care that I don’t have a father. It’s my loss.”
Sonya squeezes his shoulder. “It’s his loss because he will never know what a wonderful son he could’ve had.”
All remains of buzz and tension leave Pasha’s body. Wonderful? No one has ever called him wonderful. He himself wouldn’t have called himself wonderful. 
“Are you feeling better?” Sonya asks.
Pasha faces her. Of course, his face is splotchy, and his eyes are puffy, but he doesn’t care. He nods, longing for her smile.
Only she doesn’t smile. Her brows are drawn together in a strange determination he’s never seen on her face. “Because I have a plan. We’re going to steal that amber brooch.”
“Excuse me?”
She takes her hand off his shoulder. “It belonged to your grandma and your mother — it’s yours more than his. So let’s steal it.” She says it with such ease as if she’s suggesting they read another Harry Potter chapter.
“It’s crazy.” Pasha shakes his head. “We can’t. It’s wrong.”
“Hey, who here is a bad boy, you or me?”
“Come on, Sonya. It’s not just wrong — it’s illegal.”
“Yes. Illegal and bad and against the rules and wrong.” Her blue eyes are ablaze with excitement. “Exactly what I need as a part of my education.”
“I’m serious. He’s drunk, who knows what he’ll do. It’s dangerous.”
She tilts her head. “Okay, you’re clearly not a Gryffindor. Anyway, it’s not stealing if it’s something that belongs to you. Let’s do it, Pasha.”
Stealing a brooch from Ilya doesn’t feel the same as taking books from the library. It feels more like Igor stealing his cigarettes. Petty, low, sneaky. Then, he remembers Ilya’s stained fingers clutching the brooch. The brooch deserves better, so much better than that sad little apartment.
“Let’s do it,” he says.
Before he knows it, Sonya grabs his hand, and he can’t resist following her. He recalls calling her his friend to Ilya, not even thinking twice about the word.
“Do you have a plan?” he asks as they cross the road.
“We can make it on our way.”
Sonya keeps saying something, but Pasha becomes acutely aware that they are still holding hands. Just as he does, it’s as if he spoils it, because Sonya lets go. The rest of the way, they come up with the plan, then plan B, then plan C. Soon, they are at the familiar building.
Pasha presses the buttons on the door code, and it beeps. They enter, go into the lift and press number four. They did the same a little more than an hour ago, yet it feels like a different lifetime. Pasha’s eyes still hurt from crying, and he’s glad there’s no mirror in the lift. This time, he looks back at Sonya when he feels her looking at him, and he hopes to catch her bravery through the eyes.
They ring the bell and wait for a few long moments.
“Maybe he left?” Pasha says. “Do we have a plan D?”
At that, the door opens, and Ilya stares at them.
“Pasha — ”
“I left something in the bathroom,” Sonya says and enters the apartment without invitation, pushing the man twice her size aside. 
“You — um — ” Ilya tries to come up with words and ends up slurring something incoherent.
Pasha goes inside as well, straight towards the kitchen, hoping to see the brooch still there on the table. The ashtray is full of stubs, their three teacups are on the same spot, the vodka bottle is nearly empty. The brooch is nowhere to be seen. 
Plan B, then.
Pasha clutches his stomach and cries out in the best imitation of excruciating pain he can muster. “Oh no, my stomach!” 




Chapter Nine


Pasha’s screams come from the kitchen, sending a chill down Sonya’s spine. Plan B, then. She really hoped it wouldn’t come to that. More noises reach her, and she can only guess it’s Ilya rushing towards Pasha, toppling something on his way. Pasha keeps groaning, hopefully loud enough, so that Ilya wouldn’t hear Sonya.
She tiptoes out of the bathroom and sneaks into the room — the apartment is so small, it only takes her a few steps to do it. The room is a mess. So many socks on the floor, they almost make up a carpet. The shelves seem to have never been dusted. An unmade bed, dark green covers falling onto the floor. The brooch is nowhere to be seen.
Ilya’s strained cries come from the kitchen. “What’s wrong? What do you need?” There is a panic in his cry — pure, raw fear that Sonya didn’t expect to find there. “You need water?”
Sonya begins opening the cabinets, trying to keep it quiet. One of them squeaks loud, and a smash of glass against the floor comes from the kitchen — Ilya being drunk might actually be their luck. Or maybe it was Pasha who toppled something over to cover up whatever noise Sonya might be doing?
Sonya switches her attention to the drawers, scanning each carefully. The drawers are even a bigger mess than the rest of the room. There’s no structure, no order. His possessions are a mix of a person who doesn’t care what he owes — an exquisite empty frame with Chinese patterns next to a generic cheap glass case. A fancy black notebook next to a silly pocket calendar with cats on another side of it. Spare pens next to some batteries, next to odds of pills. There’s nothing that would suggest what kind of person he is, no pictures anywhere, just like there are no magnets on the fridge. 
Trying to keep track of the noises from the kitchen — Pasha’s groans and Ilya’s panicked swearing — Sonya abandons the drawers near the bed and rushes to a wardrobe. The clothes stuff the drawers haphazardly. Pasha groans louder, his voice almost breaking. It seems that he has missed his true calling of an actor because even Sonya begins to worry about him.
 She sneaks towards the desk with three narrow drawers beside it, and as she reaches to open them, her eyes catch something beside an ugly green lamp. A photo, unframed, a familiar face looking at her from it. She takes it and moves it closer. Pasha’s hair is cut very short, but it is him, her vision didn’t deceive her. It’s that same Pasha she knew, around eight or nine, meeting the camera with a bold look. The other side of the photograph is blank. No name, no date, no note.
Sonya’s hand trembles and as she puts the photo back, she topples over the green lamp. It falls down in slow motion. A clash resonates through the empty room and carries around the flat. Pasha’s wailing becomes louder. Ilya’s big, heavy steps thunder towards the room. Before Sonya can think, she scuttles under the bed. The space is so tiny, she can barely breathe.
“What the — ”
Ilya treads and trips throughout the room, crossing it in few steps. He swears, puts the lamp back up, halts in the room. The flooring squeals under his steps. Sonya should’ve been more careful. If Ilya notices her elbow sticking out or decides to look under the bed or checks if she’s still in the bathroom, they’re — 
Pasha’s groans come from the kitchen, louder than before, and Ilya rushes away. 
“I’m calling an ambulance!”
Sonya clambers from under the bed, covered in dust, an odd stinky sock clinging to her knee. She rushes back to the desk and opens the first drawer. Odds and ends. The second. Rubbish. The third. Among all the small forgotten nothings lies the amber brooch, duller without the lamplight shining over it. Sonya grabs it, her knees buckling, and puts it safely in her jeans pocket. She sneaks back into the bathroom, then makes a point of opening and closing the door loudly.
 She walks into the kitchen. Pasha is bent in two on the floor, Ilya jumps around him, his arms flying around, face distorted with panic.
“Oh Pasha, it that your stomach again?” Sonya says, trying to sound casual. “There’s no need for the ambulance. It’ll soon go away.”
Pasha lets out a breath and stands up. “I think it’s passing already. We’ll go.”
“Wha — go — No, you can’t go. Wait for the abul — ambulance.”
Ilya hiccups again, a frown on his forehead, his bare feet standing in the pool of spilt vodka. For a second, Sonya feels bad for the man, but then she remembers the things he said earlier. She remembers that he had Pasha’s phone number and never called. In all these years, not once.
“Thanks, but we have to go.” She takes Pasha by the elbow and leads him out.
Before Ilya can say anything, they rush out of the flat, out of the building and onto a street. They keep a brisk pace for a little longer, until they cross the road and slow down, Sonya’s hand still looped around Pasha’s elbow. The wind rises and threatens to blow their hoods from their heads.
“You got it?” he asks, his voice hoarse.
Instead of answering, she takes the brooch from her pocket and hands it to him. “It’s yours. Rightfully yours.”
“Well. We stole it, so not rightfully.”
“No. We took back what belonged to you. To your family.”
“Like a family heirloom,” he murmurs, his thumb caressing the amber stone.
“It felt good, didn’t it? Taking it back?”
Pasha doesn’t answer and walks on. 
She squeezes his arm, trying to catch his eyes. “Pasha?”
“Yeah, but … I dunno. Felt off. Scaring him like that.”
“I know. Maybe it wasn’t the best plan, but it worked.”
Pasha doesn't raise his gaze from the pavement in front of them. She can’t see anything in his eyes, they’re a stranger’s darkness once again. Sonya remembers a nine-year-old Pasha, but not the one she knew. The one with short hair, his dark eyes piercing a camera but also seeming to want to look away. Unframed, unmarked.
“Pasha, there’s something I saw in the room … There was a photo of you.”
Pasha’s forearm stiffens under her hand. It feels weird, too personal to be touching him right now, so she lets him go.
“A photo? In his room?"
“Yes. One of those end of the school year photos. You looked similar to when we used to hang out. Only your hair was really short. Almost shaven down.”
Pasha nods. “Second grade. There was an outbreak of lice in pansion. Where — um — where did he keep it? I mean, was it in some drawer?”
“It was on his desk. Without a frame, beside a lamp.”
“Oh. I see.”
His voice is level. What does he see? What does that mean, anyway? Sonya doesn’t know, and Pasha doesn’t say anything, so they just keep on walking. The sky has darkened, and it starts to drizzle, but they march together towards the train station, battling against the wind that keeps on rising.
#
As they get on the train and it sets off, it’s already raining. This time, they are almost alone in the wagon, sitting opposite each other. Drops are sliding down the window like tears, and Sonya traces them with her eyes, pressing her forehead to the cold surface. Maybe she’s not supposed to feel like this — the day is a disappointment and tears and broken hope — but she loved every minute of it. She has never felt so alive, so rebellious, so determined.
Sonya catches Pasha staring at her, then averting his eyes. He did the same on their way to Obninsk, and it tickles something inside her in a very pleasant way to know he studies her face.
“Tired?” she asks. Perhaps one day he would begin the conversation first, he would ask her something, but she doesn’t mind it now.
“Yeah.” Now Pasha traces the drops sliding down, his hair slightly darker after the drizzle. “Didn’t think I’ll ever be glad to go back to pansion. At least there’s no surprises there.”
He seems to be on the verge of saying something else, but then closes his mouth and lets out a slow breath through the nose.
“I wish I didn’t have to return home.” Sonya turns towards the window as well. Trees and fields rush past them, and there’s a faint reflection of Pasha’s face, looking right at her. “I wish I could leave one of these days and never come back.” 
“You don’t mean that.”
“I do. I really do.”
“But — aren’t your parents nice? I don’t get it. If I had your family, I would’ve been so happy.”
“Nice, yes. Sometimes too nice. Sometimes they just don’t let me breathe. I kind of wish I had your freedom.”
“Not having parents who love you and wait for you to get home is not freedom.”
He spurts out the words fast, and a nasty feeling pricks her in the chest. “Sorry. I didn’t mean that. It’s sort of like your father and my parents are on two sides of the line. One end is not caring at all; another end is caring too much. I just want the middle.”
“I know. Me too.”
Pasha’s gaze in the reflection relaxes into the distance. Sonya can’t even imagine how ashamed he must feel for crying in front of her, this girl he barely knows, for building up lies about his father all those years ago, and for having them come crashing down like this. His fingers fiddle with his jacket sleeve, and his leg shakes with nerves. His honesty and vulnerability make her own lies seem larger, creating a chasm between them. The last thing she wants is to have any sort of distance between them again. Not after what happened today. Sonya licks her lips before speaking. 
“Pasha? I wanted to tell you … I lied to you too.”
He looks at her, eyebrows raised.
“The blue paintings. I … I still paint them. I have a huge stack of them in the drawer, next to my bed. No one knows about them.” She begins pinching her elbows through her sweater, taking a fraction of Pasha’s shame and candour onto herself.
“Not even Alina?”
Sonya shakes her head. “I made a promise to myself to never tell anyone. Obviously it was when I was older, after I told you.”
“And — do you still have the dreams?”
Sonya nods. “Yes. Once in a few months.”
“Why did you lie?”
He doesn’t accuse her. He watches her through the window glass again. A faint shape of Pasha, a faint shape of knowing the answer even before she says it.
“I didn’t know if I could trust you this secret. Same thing why you didn’t tell me about your father, right?”
He nods. “I’m glad you told me now.”
A huge weight lifts from Sonya’s heart, and she exhales slowly. She wishes Pasha would relax as well, but his words rush like a waterfall, his knee bounces up and down, and his fingers fidget with the sleeve.
“Pasha? Why do you always talk so fast?”
“A habit, I guess.”
“Come on. The truth.”
He shrugs and doesn’t say anything for a while, and she thinks it’s him doing the shrugging off thing again, but then he answers. “Cause sometimes it's like people don’t want to listen to me. You know, they stop me mid-sentence or sometimes their eyes are blank, and it’s clear they’re not listening. I’m just trying to get my point across faster.”
“I like listening to you talk.”
He frowns at first, as if he thinks he misheard her. 
Sonya leans forward and places her hand carefully on his shaking knee. “You don’t have to rush when you talk to me. I’m not going anywhere. We made a pact — had a handshake and all.”
The shaking stops. A little smile touches the corners of his lips and he nods. A woman enters the wagon, pushing a trolley, and Sonya takes her hand away, leaning against the seat’s back.
The woman’s trained voice rolls around the empty wagon. “Water, juice, candy bars, chips, ice-cream.”
“Want something?” Pasha asks.
Sonya shakes her head. “I’m fine.”
Pasha buys a water bottle, spilling coins into the woman’s hand. Sonya is fine at this moment. It would soon pass, she knows, but right now, right here, she finally lifted the burden of her dreams from her shoulders, and nothing has ever felt this good.






They leave the train, putting their hoods on, zipping their coats. The rain begins to die down. The train station is two metro stops away from Sonya’s house, but close enough to pansion to get on foot. Beside the entrance to the metro, Sonya slows down.
“See you at school, then?”
“It’s late. I can walk you home.”
Sonya’s stomach does a little somersault, and she beams at Pasha. “Oh. Thank you.”
They go underground in an easy silence, passing columns, people, statues. It seems to Sonya that everyone stares at them, everyone knows how she longs to take his hand, and the way her heart jumps in her chest each time their eyes meet.
Out in the fresh air, she breathes in, hoping to calm down her nerves. The rain stopped, and it has beat down all the dust, so the city doesn’t resemble a busy ant hill with ten million people running around, with cars stuck in constant traffic. It feels fresh, new, light.
They walk in silence along a big road, then turn to a side-street, quiet and empty, dim orange lights guiding their way. For the first time, Sonya is sorry her house is so close to the metro station. A few minutes, and they’ll have to say goodbye. She’s not sure if it’s her or Pasha, but they slow down more and more the closer to the apartment building they get.
“Hey, listen. I don’t think I said thank you," Pasha says with an effort of talking slower. "For making me go and for coming with me.”
“I thought you might hate me for it, after how it went.”
“No. Of course not. And thank you for this.”
He raises his hand with the amber brooch, and its orange light is even brighter under the street-lamps. Then, he puts the brooch in his pocket, takes his hand out and clasps Sonya’s hand.
It’s warm, a contrast to her cold hand. She tightens her hold around him, and her heart is now a drumroll, and she gives him a beaming smile, the most honest one she’s ever given him. He smiles back; a small, restrained grin.
“Sonya!”
Anya stands near the entrance to their building, her friend from school next to her. Anya stares at their hands, clasped together. Her face darkens and changes from surprise to horror. 
“Oh, hi, Anya.” Sonya clings to Pasha’s hand. It would not be like last time.
“Aren’t you Pasha Aronov? From pansion?” Anya turns to her friend. “I’ll see you tomorrow.”
Anya is quick like a fox, and the next second she has disappeared inside. Sonya drops Pasha’s hand and rushes after her.
“Stop, Anya! He’s a nice guy. He’s not — ”
“He’s from pansion,” Anya repeats as she jumps up the stairs, two at a time. “I know what guys like him do.”
“No, don’t tell Mama and Papa, please — ”
But it’s too late — Anya is too fast, and she’s already in the apartment. By the time Sonya barges in, panting and clutching her side with the hand she was holding Pasha not a minute ago, Anya has already told them.
“Sonya?”
Papa’s voice comes from the living room, strict and rough. Sonya follows it, still in her coat. Papa has his hands crossed, and Mama is in the chair, pressing a hand to her chest.
“Is this true?” Papa asks. “Are you seeing some dangerous boy from pansion?”
“No — I mean he’s not dangerous.”
“Of course he is!” Anya exclaims, her face crossed with worry. She turns to their parents. “You don’t know the stories they tell! These boys are horrible. One was arrested recently. And I heard someone saying that one of them has — you know — assaulted a girl.”
Mama gasps and rushes to Sonya, grabbing her hands tight, as if thinking this would protect her from everything bad in the world. “Sonya, did something happen — ”
“Pasha is not like that,” Sonya says, stepping away. “And you can’t judge all of them by just one person.”
“I don’t care,” Papa says, his fists clenching. “You are not to see this boy if he is from pansion. They’re no good.”
Sonya begins suffocating, literally, as if her mother is gripping her by the throat, not by the hands. She tries to breathe in, to say something.
“Why were you even with him?” Mama says. “You were supposed to spend the day with Alina.”
“I’m — I — ”
“It doesn’t matter,” Papa says. “Leave the child alone, Olga. And Sonya, you won’t be seeing him again. End of discussion.”
Sonya looks at Papa, Mama, Anya. She closes her eyes, focusing on the warmth of Pasha’s hand, of his small grin. She imagines a piano keyboard and making music with a slight pressure of her fingers. At last, she manages to fill her lungs with air.
“Yes, Papa.”
Her voice is calm, her face a mask. Mama smiles and pats her cheek. Papa nods and returns to his chair. Sonya gives them a trained smile, takes off her coat in the hall and goes into her room. She looks out of the window, not daring to hope Pasha will be there, but — 
He is there. A hand buried in his pocket, another holding a cigarette. Sonya taps the glass, and he turns his head. She waves, smiling, breathing normally again. He waves back. Sonya raises her index finger for him to wait and runs to her table. There, she tears a page from her math notebook and scribbles words, hoping Pasha will decipher her scribbles.


See you on Monday. We’ll have to sneak. 
I’ll leave you a note in our book.
Your bad girl.  


She folds the paper in the shape of a plane, then opens the window, and throws it towards Pasha. The paper plane glides gracefully, a bit to the left of him, and he jumps to to catch it. She watches him unfold the paper and read it, a cigarette between his fingers. Slowly, his lips stretch into a smile. He raises his head at her, waves once again and leaves.


Chapter Ten


Pasha lies on his bed, consuming every word of Sonya’s note, every twist and every angle of her letters. His eyes keep darting to the word ‘your’. Warmth spills in his stomach, streaming through him, to the tips of his toes — something so profound and forceful that he hasn’t experienced before, not even those times he’s been intimate with girls. The thought of not seeing her for a whole day pains him. He is half-thrilled and half-annoyed at himself for falling for her so fast and so hard.
For this blessed evening, the room is his only. Igor is out, and the monotonous hum of pansion relaxes him. He never thought he’d be glad to get back here, but this place is at least predictable. Comfortable, almost like home.
There’s a knock on the door, and Pasha sits up, stuffing the note under the blanket. Lev Aleksandrovich enters. His composure and soft features look especially serene when Pasha compares him to Ilya. Lev is clean-shaven, always soft-spoken, always gains respect without demanding it.
“Pavel, your father is on the phone.”
“What? I’m — I can’t talk now.”
Lev’s brow furrows. “What do you mean? You’re not doing anything.”
“I’m — er — ”
“Come on, Pavel.”
A quiet encouragement, something impossible to argue with. Pasha follows Lev into his office, stumbling on the flat surface, his toes still hurting after that time he kicked the bench. His mind whirs violently, trying to figure out what Ilya might say. Is he worried about Pasha’s health? Does he want to apologise and meet again? Did he notice the brooch is missing?
Pasha picks up the phone. “Hello?”
“Pavel? You took it, haven’t you?”
The voice is hissing, slurring. Pasha doesn’t need to guess — Ilya is drunk. 
“Yes, I got home fine, thanks,” Pasha says, glancing at Lev who stands beside him, hands in his pockets.
“What? Did you hear me? I can’t find the fucking — fucking — ”
“Really?” Pasha tries to sound as nonchalant as he can. “Sounds great.”
“Stop messing with me!”
Pasha fakes a laugh. “Yes, I understand. I have to go, too. Talk to you soon?”
“Fucking — ”
“Bye.”
Pasha hangs up the phone, his heart a drumroll, his knees ready to buckle. He wishes he would never hear that slurry voice again, but it doesn’t seem like Ilya will let it go. He had seventeen years to reconnect with Pasha, and he never even bothered. Now, Pasha can’t shake him off. 
Lev pats Pasha’s back. “Glad the meeting went well. It’s important to keep in touch with your family. And this reunion was long overdue.”
Pasha nods. Lev didn’t actually ask how the meeting went. Even now, Pasha is on the verge of telling him everything — anticipation, relief, then utter disappointment. The stealing. But Pasha is not good at starting this type of conversations. On so many occasions, Lev nudged him, weeding bits of uncomfortable revelations, then they talked it through, setting everything straight.
Not anymore. Still not asking for details of the meeting or the conversation, Lev nods for him go away. Now that his father stopped neglecting him, seems like somebody had to take this position. 
#
It seeps into his dreams. All night Ilya chases him, clawing at his ankles, tugging at his sleeves, snatching the hem of his shirt. All night Pasha flees from him, trailing Lev, whose figure grows smaller and smaller and turns almost ghostly.
The morning comes, and Pasha’s head is throbbing from a restless sleep. He sneaks from his room before Igor is up and takes a long way to school — on foot rather than through metro tunnels with their unending flashes of light, flashy placards and bodies packed tight.
The streets, instead, are filled with unexpected sunshine, and the air has at last warmed up. People in thin jackets and sneakers hurry past, smelling of coffee and cologne. All of them know the cold spell will come back, bringing rain and maybe even snow, as it happens every year. But everyone pretends.
Pasha himself is way too excited about finally wearing his Converse and a new flannel shirt, not bothering with a jacket. Yes, he bought the shirt from a sketchy shop in an underground metro crossing, but he paid for it. It was his, and his alone.
Your bad girl.
The school bustles with preparations to Passover. On the eve of the first day, the school will host a seder for the students — a unique dinner where each piece of meal is meant to represent something related to Passover. Many people will be there, including Naomi with her family. It will be his chance to talk to her.
Class after class, and Pasha hasn’t managed even a peek at Sonya. He tries to mute a voice inside him, telling him Sonya will ignore him, as she did last time. This voice bears an uncanny resemblance to Ilya’s voice — jeering, stumbling into itself. As soon as a lunch break comes and crowds of hungry students stroll towards the cafeteria, Pasha rushes in a different direction. He runs to the library, into a familiar corner, and opens their book. He’s barely able to restrain a cry of joy as a note slips onto his lap. It’s blissfully long.


I looked up a timetable and it looks like we won’t see each other in the halls today. But Anya has her evening seminar so meet me under the tree after the last class.
I was afraid to fall asleep yesterday, afraid I might have the dream again. But it didn’t happen. Instead, I dreamed of you. You stood on an empty school stage, singing so very out of tune. I sat in the audience, alone, and clapped and laughed. Something else might’ve happened, I don’t remember, but I woke up with a smile on my face.
I miss you.


Pasha reads and rereads the note until he remembers he has to go to lunch before the break is over. He pockets Sonya’s note and puts the book back. Ilya’s voice is a mere whisper inside his head. She didn’t ignore him. It’s different now.
As he passes a first-floor hall and swerves towards the staircase, someone tugs at his backpack. He topples on his back, his headache returning in full. His father. He managed to catch him after all. He came for the brooch. He — 
But another face comes into view. Younger, paler. 
“Didn’t think it would be that simple to topple you over, Aronov,” Igor says.
Pasha clambers to his feet, his head and back pulsating. “Piss off.”
“Coming from the library? Stole any more books lately?” Igor mocks.
“How did you — ”
“We live together. I’m not an idiot. Unlike you.”
Pasha rolls his eyes and straightens his shirt. Typical Igor; typical jabs to provoke him. Half-baked imbecile, Sonya called him, and the memory almost makes him smile. Igor won’t get what he wants from him today.
“Find someone else to pick fights with.” Pasha starts up the ladder.
“Can’t. It’s personal now.”
Pasha halts. Something about Igor’s tone is different. It’s not a lazy poke this time, but a fierce thrust.
“At first you’ve been easy to manipulate, and it was fun, I gotta admit. But now … I heard you’re sucking up to Naomi. And you won’t be the one she chooses.”
Without thinking, Pasha whirls around. It’s almost too easy to fall back into his usual routine with Igor. “Then who will — you? Like you care.”
“I’ve got my reasons. Also, a bit of personality. Something you seem to lack. More importantly, I’ve got Lev’s support. Something you definitely lack.”
The bell rings. Pasha realises his fists are curled up, and he has to force himself to relax. Lev’s dismissive nod plays on repeat in his head. Ilya’s voice joins in, telling him he has a wild stare, saying getting into trouble is who he is. Pasha teeters over the edge of his own anger, trying to keep his balance. The corridor is empty, and it’s so tempting to give in, to strike a blow, to plunge into the abyss.
Igor steps towards Pasha. “I know what you are. Worthless. Not needed.”
His filthy grin screams ‘hit me’. Whatever he said, whether it’s personal or not, he needs a thrill. Pasha clenches his fists tighter but stands still. He made a promise to himself. Sonya was his witness. He’s not letting his rage take over him. Not anymore.
Before he knows it, Igor’s fist collides with his eye, and he loses his balance. Pain, adrenaline, fury mix up inside him like a dangerous cocktail and sizzle on the surface. He lunges at Igor, strikes a blow, and soon everything disappears apart from the punches, the metallic taste in his mouth, the buzz reverberating through his bones. He might be standing or falling or rolling. He doesn’t know which fists belong to Igor, which to him. 
A hand yanks him from behind, tearing him away from Igor. A familiar voice calls, and the sizzling dies down.
“Stop it!”
The world sets straight again, and pain courses through Pasha. Lev stands between them.
“You two again? Can’t you keep it together?” Lev’s frustrated glower is fixed on Pasha, as if Igor is innocent, as if he isn’t ever there.
“He started — ” Pasha begins.
“Don’t you dare,” Lev cuts him short.
Another figure is next to Lev: Naomi Rosenberg. Pasha cowers under her gaze. He can’t see her expression clearly — a black-eye seem to be puffing up —  is she mad? Shocked? Disappointed?
Lev says something to her in English, pointing at Pasha. He only catches one word: trouble. Does he mean Pasha is trouble? Or Pasha always gets into trouble? He doesn’t need to know English to understand it’s not in his favour. 
"Go to the nurse, Pavel," Lev says. "Then straight to the principal.”
Pasha nods, but they are already going up the stairs. As Lev’s figure disappeared in his dream, so do now all his kindness and protection. Lev supports Igor with his hand, and Naomi doesn’t cast a single glance at Pasha.
As soon as he’s alone, he kicks the wall, adding pain to his toes, and curses loudly. Before any of the teachers appear from a classroom, he rushes back to the library. There, he scribbles a note to Sonya, puts it into the book, and stumbles towards the nurse’s office. The pain sharpens, pulsating under his eye, nose, knuckles, toes. He passes a mirror and halts, catching his reflection. As he thought, a fresh black-eye will spring tomorrow, even before the old one has healed. Blood under his nose is smeared, and he braves a glance at his sleeve. His new flannel shirt is covered in blood.


Chapter Eleven


“Well?”Alina whispers as soon as the teacher turns her back to write something on the board. “How was the meeting?”
“It didn’t happen,” Sonya whispers back, opening her biology book.
“Why not?”
“He left me a note but didn’t tell why.”
“Probably has to do with that fresh black-eye he’s sporting, huh?”
Sonya nods. Whenever she caught glimpses of Pasha in the corridors, he always looked down, always disappeared fast, always failed to hide his black-eye. Anya followed Sonya around at all times, so she had to engage all her strength not to talk to him and not even look at him for too long. How she went about her days before, without this all-consuming craving of him, is a mystery to her.
At least she has his notes, something so clearly his that it feels like he’s almost near. Sonya opens his note, rereading it yet again. She’s done it so many times already, she might soon learn it by heart. Pasha’s handwriting is all edges and spikes, and when he crosses words out, he spares no ink.


Something happened. I can't make it today. I’m sorry. When can we meet?
I haven’t seen you for so long, I wonder if I’ve imagined you. Why else would you be so helpful and kind to someone like me?
Maybe one day we can recreate your dream. You won’t be able to contain your laughter when you hear me sing. 
Can’t wait to see you.


Sonya tears a page from her notebook and writes him an answer, trying to saturate each letter with her longing for him, hoping he would read between the lines.
Alina peeks at the note. “So, why don’t you send each other cute little texts like normal lovesick teenagers do in the 21st century?”
“Pasha doesn’t have a cell.”
“Oh.” Alina furrows her brow. “Right. I sometimes forget kids at pansion don’t have things like this.”
Sonya folds her note and hides it in her pocket, together with Pasha’s note. Then she copies the topic from the blackboard to her notebook, trying hard to concentrate, ignoring the impulse to stare at Pasha’s words all lesson. She’s never been the one to fail her grades because of a crush, and she’s not going to be that person now. 
About half-way through the lesson, though, the itch becomes irresistible. She takes his note from her pocket and traces the words with her finger. I wonder if I’ve imagined you. Can’t wait to see you. 
Anya nudges her shoulder. “I think you're ready to join my club.”
“Huh? What club?”
“The club of lovey-dovey, horny and desperate.”
Sonya feels a blush coming and tries to suppress a chuckle. “I guess I am joining your club, then. You know, when he smiles I get this jittery feeling in her stomach. Especially if it’s after something I said or did. And it’s happening so fast, I’m — hold on. You think I’m desperate?”
“Not you. Your crush.” Alina purses her lips. “His one big goal in life is to move to Canada, isn’t it?”
“Yeah. I have to remind myself that.” She folds the note again and faces Alina. “What about you? You’re talking to Nina now at least. I wouldn’t call your crush desperate.”
Alina shrugs, but a dreamy smile spreads on her lips. “Nina is … I didn’t think I could adore her more, but I do. She’s incredible. It’s like we’ve known each other forever. So easy to talk to her.”
“See? Not desperate.”
 “By the way, she texted me earlier, and we wanted to go for a walk. Do you want to join us?”
“Only if you help me record a video for the competition.”
“Deal. Oh, have you seen a new episode of — ”
“Ashurova! Selvinskaya!” The biology teacher’s voice thunders across the classroom as she points her pen towards them. “You two chatterboxes. Disrespectful! Selvinskaya, repeat what I’ve just said.” 
Sonya opens and closes her mouth. 
“Ashurova?” The teacher turns to Alina.
“You two chatterboxes. Disrespectful,” Alina says and gives her a smug smile.
The class bursts into laughter.
The teacher shakes her head. “Such a bright girl, and such an ugly personality, Ashurova.”
Sonya blushes for the two of them. “Sorry. We’ll be quiet.”
“You better be.”
Sonya nudges Alina in her ribs and the rest of the class they try hard to concentrate on the lesson.





After the classes are over, and Sonya has put her note into the library book, she meets Alina and Nina in the music room. They set the camera and record her playing Clair de Lune and then something she wrote herself. Sonya thinks about Pasha as her fingers slide across the keyboard almost on their own accord. Then, she uses a school computer to send the videos to the competition. An act of small rebellion.
Outside, the spring air and the sudden warmth beg for an after-school walk. Sonya, Alina and Nina stroll through the boulevard, already green and flowery, bustling with prams, roller-skates, and pigeons. They cross tiny winding streets between Pokrovka and Solyanka, past wooden chapels and half-deserted construction sites.
They reach an empty river bank and go down to sit by the water, their legs hanging from the wooden dais. The leaves reflection on the water turns it dark, swampish green. A long, narrow bridge arches beside them, hung with love locks. All around Moscow, the river banks are Sonya’s favourite places. The river carries on no matter what. It surges forward, taking away all your troubles. And as long as Sonya isn’t inside the water, she feels safe.
With a glow in her chest, she realises she hasn’t had her dreams in a while — not since she shook Pasha’s hand and they made a pact. Now she doesn’t even know when she’ll have a chance to talk to him properly, let alone hold his hand.
Alina and Nina’s laughter brings Sonya back to reality. She watches them for a while, wondering how right they look together despite their different appearances. Nina’s milky-white skin and flowing blond hair contrasts to Alina’s dark North Caucasus complexion and chaotic black bob. But maybe they look so fitting exactly because of their differences. Like they complete each other.
Sonya makes a show of looking at her watch and gasping. “Oh, I forgot I need to get home earlier today! I have to go. See you tomorrow.”
She stands up, takes her backpack, catches Alina’s eyes — thankful and so utterly happy — and waves to them. She walks away slowly, eager to be with them, to drink in more of their laughter, and then Nina starts to sing. Sonya halts behind the corner, listening. It’s not something from the choir or for school holidays. The melody is sweet and light and so fitting to Nina that Sonya wonders if she wrote it herself.
“I love you.”
The singing cuts off. Sonya’s own breathing seems to stop, and only the water keeps rushing.  Sonya can’t believe Alina had actually said it, and she thinks maybe Alina can’t either.
“Wh — what?”
“Sorry. I didn’t — ”
“No, what did you mean by that?”
“I loved that song.”
“You said you loved me.”
“I’m sorry. It came out. I didn’t mean it.”
Sonya pinches her elbows, her own heart beating a drumroll. She wants to turn her head around the corner and see what’s going on because the silence is getting too heavy. Then, Alina speaks, her voice smaller than usual.
“You know what? I did mean that. I’m crazy about you — I have been for more than a year. And I want you to know that. You’re always nice and so humble and — what are you doing?”
“I’m leaving.” Nina’s voice is shaking.
“No, please — I’m sorry.”
Nina rushes past Sonya, not noticing her there. Sonya waits for a few beats, then turns the corner. Alina grips the edges of the dais, head hung low.
“Alina?”
She jumps but doesn’t turn.
“Are you okay? I heard — ”
“Doesn’t matter.” Her voice comes out strained, merely a whisper.
Sonya sits next to her, putting her arm on her shoulder. Alina shrugs her hand off. She stares ahead, eyes huge, unblinking. They’ve been through so much together: first kisses, silly crushes, little heartbreaks, big disappointments. Yet Sonya has never seen Alina like this.
“I’m so sorry, Alina. Talk to me.”
“No. I don’t need your pity. I was an idiot.”
“I don’t want to pity you, Alina. I’m here for you.” She reaches her arm towards her again but halts midway.
Alina shuts her eyes, her face screwed up. “I messed it all up. She looked horrified.”
“You told her the truth. I think it’s admirable.”
“Funny, isn’t it?” Alina snaps. “First Pasha, now me.”
Sonya lets her arm fall. “What do you mean?”
“You keep pushing people to take a risk, and we get disappointed. And yet you never take risks yourself. I know you don’t want this whole religious shit even though you don’t say it. You’re a hypocrite.”
Sonya bites her lips furiously. Of course she is. All those times she pushed Alina and Pasha, and she never tried to be brave herself.
Alina pierces Sonya with her dark eyes. “If you think my honesty is admirable, you should be honest as well. You should tell your parents you don’t want religion. You should tell them you want to write music.”
“I’ll tell them if I win the prize." Sonya shifts in her seat. "At least then they’ll know I’m serious about it.”
“And if you don’t? You just give up on your dream? That’s it?” Her tone is cold, chafing Sonya’s darkest wound.
“No.”
“You should follow your own damn advice.”
“Maybe I will.”
Alina nods and stares into the water, picking at her nails. “Sorry for snapping. I’m not mad at you. I’m mad at myself.”
Sonya raises her arm again, this time wrapping it around Alina. Alina moves closer and puts her head on her shoulder.
“If I had a chance to redo this moment,” she says, “I’d say it again. I felt like I was lying to her before, you know? At least now she knows someone loves her. Isn’t it nice to know someone loves you?”
Sonya just holds Alina closer, and they stay like this until the wind gets cold, blowing through their coats into their bones.
#


Sonya begins to shiver from the cold as she nears her apartment building. Inside, it's silent apart from a low buzz of TV. Before Sonya even changes into home clothes, she dashes to her drawer and takes out a purple notebook. She opens it on her bed, and glues Pasha’s note inside. 
She rereads it again although she doesn’t need to anymore. She can just close her eyes and see the words imprinted on her eyelids. Sonya closes the notebook and hides it into her drawer, right on top of the stack of her drowning pictures.
Her stomach grumbles, but she won’t manage to eat now. She promised Alina something, and she has to do it before her tiny bit of bravery has died down. Mama and Papa sit in the living room, as always. Anya reads, curled up in a chair, not bothered by the TV.
“Sonechka, are you hungry?” Mama asks, tapping the sofa for Sonya to sit beside her.
“Yeah, I’ll eat later. I wanted to talk first.”
Sonya sits beside Mama and waits for Papa to tear himself off the screen. He looks at her eventually, but his eyes keep darting to the TV.
"About what?" he asks.
“About universities.”
Anya perks up. “Oh, I can’t believe I forgot!” She puts the book aside, springs into their room like lightning and is back within a moment, holding something in her hands. “They gave us brochures during the seminar. There are a few universities in Moscow that offer good education as well as traditional learning. Plus, more in Israel. There are companies that can help us, or we can go abroad and study for a year or so. The opportunities are endless!”
“Well done, Anya.” Papa looks through the prospects, then hands them to Sonya.
Sonya doesn’t reach for them. From afar, she sees smiling girls and big, pompous words. She takes a long, deep breath.
“I meant something else, actually.”
“What, then?” Mama asks, taking the brochures in turn.
“Well, I was thinking — if it’s possible — I can, maybe, apply to some music schools — like, you know, conservatories and such.”
Anya tilts her head, curious. Mama raises her eyebrows, and Papa simply snorts.
“Sonya, music is something you do after school as a hobby,” Papa says. “Not something you earn money with.”
“Well, it can be both, though, can’t it?”
A furniture shop advertisement thunders from the TV, and Mama mutes it. “How do you imagine studying in a conservatory when we’re all trying to follow the religion? What if they have classes on Saturdays?”
“I can skip them — ”
“Do you think people there will understand? You need to surround yourself with those who will support you. Somewhere where you can learn more about religion and traditions.”
“Take a look at these brochures,” Papa adds. “You can still have music as your hobby.”
Sonya urges more words to come out. She has to tell them she applied for a competition. That it’s been her dream for so long, and she hears music all the time and she needs to let it out. That she doesn’t actually want to become religious.
Only the words don’t come. Without her consent, her mouth closes, her head nods. Papa unmutes the TV as the ad break is over and turns towards the screen.
Mama ruffles Sonya’s hair. “You don’t need to study in a conservatory to play music. Okay, sweetie?”
Sonya fakes a beaming smile. Back in her room, all she wants is to scream or bang the door shut, but the walls are thin, and the neighbours might complain about the noise. She can’t even go and play the piano — the music room is closed. So she changes into her home clothes, rage bubbling inside her, and lies on the bed.
A huge rock in her throat impales her breathing, and she knows there’ll be a nightmare today.


Chapter Twelve


whole week passed, and Pasha only glimpsed Sonya in the halls, always with Anya in tow. Finally, on Friday, Sonya has a date for him. 


I’m very real, Pasha. And everyone deserves kindness. You, especially. I hope you can see yourself the way I see you.
Anya has her seminar again next Monday. Let’s try same time, same spot.


When Monday comes, Pasha drops all attempts to feign interest in classes and trudges through the day. The bell rings, letting them go from the last class, and he doesn’t waste a second before leaving the school building. The evening wind cools his black-eye, and he picks up his pace, keeping his eyes on a figure under the tree. 
Sonya looks up at him. “Hey there.”
Her light voice and sweet smile feel so out of this world that for a moment Pasha thinks she is a mirage. But then she lifts herself from the ground and gives him a fleeting hug. She is real. A strong wind messes around her frizzy hair, and she tucks them behind her ears.
They sit together. Sonya looks straight at his black-eye, then raises her hand and touches his cheek, a mere flutter of butterfly wings on his swollen skin.
“Tell me,“ she says.
Pasha tells her about Ilya’s call, about his fight with Igor, about Naomi and Lev stopping them. About Lev blaming Pasha.
“I’m such an idiot. I should’ve walked away.”
“You didn’t hit him first, though, did you?”
“No. I was keeping it together. But, honestly,” Pasha turns away from Sonya, “I think I would’ve broken loose eventually.”
He focuses his attention on blades of grass, snapping them, then twisting around his fingers. He hates to disappoint Sonya even more than to admit the truth to himself.
“You know it’s a problem, right, Pasha?” Her tone is steady, even harsh. Not a hint of disappointment in it.
“What is?”
“Your anger. It’s not unique to you, either. Lots of people deal with it. There are exercises.”
“Like what?”
“Like taking slow, deep breaths and focusing on them. Or visualising yourself in a place where you feel calm.”
“I feel calm here. With you.”
He braves a glance at her. She sits still for a moment, a marble statue with aquamarine jewels for eyes. Then, her lips quirk — not her usual beam, but a small trace of a smile. “Good. Then whenever your anger is rising, take a deep breath and imagine sitting under this tree. Imagine the sun rays seeping through the leaves, the feel of cool grass under your hands, distant voices and pigeons’ cooing. The smell of the tree bark.”
Pasha notes all the details as she speaks. Not the bark, though. There is another smell, much more fierce and lovely. A smell of bluebells and sea waves and a cloudless sky. Someday he will tell her that.
“I’ll try. Thanks.”
“What I don’t understand,” she says, “is why they blamed only you? Why not Igor as well?”
“Lev vouched for him, I bet.”
“But — it’s not fair. He started the fight.”
Pasha chuckles bitterly. “Yeah. Welcome to my life. Ever since Igor appeared, Lev has changed. It’s like he doesn’t even care about me anymore.” Pasha lets out a sigh. “I blew it. I blew this amazing opportunity to actually do something with my life.”
Sonya opens and closes her mouth, then brings her knees to her chest, looking straight ahead. “I hate it. It feels like all is lost.”
“I dunno if that’ll cheer you up, but I brought weed.”
Sonya sits still, her eyes fixed on a single dot. “Do you mind if we don’t do it? I just want to sit here with you. Think clearly.”
“Sure.” Pasha wants to ask her if she’s okay, but his tongue doesn’t move this way. Instead, he says, “You’re not smiling. I’ve never seen you not smile for so long.”
“Yeah. Figured I didn’t need to pretend with you.”
“You don’t.” Pasha gulps. How did Lev use to start conversations when he knew something bothered Pasha? That day when he lost his front baby tooth right before a class photo and everyone laughed, Lev simply sat near Pasha and asked if he wanted to talk. Pasha refused. The next day Lev did the same thing, and Pasha talked. Now, he takes a breath and turns to Sonya. “Do you want to talk?”
She gives him a sad, a little bit ashamed smile. “I drowned again last night.”
“The dream?”
“Yes. I haven’t had one since we made the pact. Then yesterday it happened again. Today on my way to school I was crossing the river and couldn’t even look at the water.”
Pasha tries to think of right words to say, but everything feels either stale or too intrusive, so he keeps quiet.
“I tried to talk to my parents about music schools. Tried to risk it. Needless to say, they heard none of it.” She wraps her arms around her knees. “I’m not enjoying it, you know? This whole 'learning to be bad' thing.”
A twinge pricks Pasha’s chest. “Um. You mean — ”
“I mean I don’t like pretending to be someone else. I’m terrified of not having a choice so I’m trying to do everything now but — I don’t want it.”
“You have a choice now. You don’t have to turn religious together with your family, do you?”
Sonya rubs her face and lets out an exasperated sigh. “I don’t really want to talk about it. Sorry. Let’s learn some English.”
“Haven’t you just said all is lost?”
“I said it feels like all is lost. But it’s not — not until Naomi makes her pick.”
“You think there's still a chance? After everything?”
“I have no idea. But we have a lot to learn and why stop now?”
They practice some dialogues, and Pasha can’t help but notice stiffness in Sonya’s voice. His mind turns over various things he can say to her, to stay with her longer, but nothing feels right. When they stand up, a question jumps out of his mouth almost without his control.
“Do you want to go to the cemetery?”
Sonya halts. “What?”
“I mean — I haven’t visited my mum’s grave in forever. You don’t have to say yes. I know it’s late. Actually, forget it, I just blurted it out without — ”
“Let’s go,” she says and grabs her backpack.
#
By the time they get to the cemetery, the sun has begun to set, painting gravestones in pink and orange. They stroll between faces, names, dates carved on stones and crosses. At some parts, the grass is unkempt, standing taller than the fence. Heaps of old grey snow edge the cemetery where the road meets its border. 
Pasha grips a bouquet of daffodils in his hand. He should’ve taken his jacket. The wind is not refreshing anymore, and his skin crawls under his shirt. Sonya has her blue coat on — she must have taken it along with her in the morning. Clever. She’s not deceived by the warmth. 
“Excited for seder next week?” she asks as they pass one especially tall cross.
“Yeah. You?”
“Definitely. Anya will be trailing me, but we might manage to have some fun.”
Though Pasha keeps his eyes on the path, he hears a smile in her voice, warming him despite the cold, despite the feeling that all is lost. They wander around, making a few wrong turns.
“When was the last time you’ve been here?”
“Don’t remember. I was around ten, I think.”
“Wow. Why haven’t you visited?”
“Ahead with the easy questions, huh?”
Sonya doesn’t apologise but doesn’t press him either. Again, the memory of Lev comes to his mind. As if they both know he simply needs time to gather his courage.
“It’s easier like that,” Pasha finally responds. “I don’t have to think about her being there. It’s almost easy to say ‘my mum is dead’. It’s just words. But when I come here, it becomes more than that. I have to face the fact that she lived once, that she could’ve been here with me, and instead she’s — ”
There. A few gravestones from them, Pasha sees it. A polished brown stone, and his mother’s face in an oval picture. Her name, chiselled in white. Nadezhda Aronova. The date of her death, not even a year after Pasha’s birth. But there is something else. 
He expected weeds covering the grave, maybe withered flowers beside it. But the grave is neat, and fresh daisies in a half-cut plastic bottle stand nearby. Could it be … He doesn’t dare to think it, to hope it.
“We should’ve brought a vase as well,” Sonya says. “I didn’t think of — Pasha, are you all right?”
Daisies flutter in the wind, so fragile, and the bottle looks like it’s about to topple over. Pasha kneels beside it and, holding the bottle in place, puts his daffodils inside.
Sonya joins him on the ground. “Pasha?”
“How come — who — ” He gulps, trying to focus. Then, he turns to Sonya and whispers, “Fresh flowers. Did he bring fresh flowers?”
“He? You think your father did it?”
Doubt fills her voice. Of course. It didn’t seem like Ilya could care for himself, let alone take care of somebody’s grave. It could’ve been his mother’s friends. Distant relatives. He didn’t even know if she had any. 
A lump sticks across Pasha’s throat. He takes Sonya’s hand. They sit still, watching daisies and daffodils play around in the wind, mixing their yellow and white. Pasha glances at his mother’s oval portrait, the only image of her he has ever seen. Bitterness spreads from his throat to his chest — they don’t look more alike now than they looked seven years ago.
“He said I have her nose,” he whispers. “And forehead. I don’t see it.”
Sonya scrutinises the portrait, then Pasha. “It’s hard to tell with facial features. The picture is blurry. But you do have the same look in your eyes.”
“What look?”
Sonya halts, switching her gaze from Pasha to the portrait. “Sad. But also bold. Alert.”
Pasha peers into his mother’s eyes. He doesn’t see it, but he believes Sonya. 
They sit for a while, but there’s nothing else to do, nothing to discuss — Pasha has no stories to tell, no memories to recall. As they walk towards the metro station, hand in hand, the sky begins to darken. Holding her hand is intimate. He’s been intimate with girls before, but now there’s something else mixed inside him apart from empty lust. He can’t really name it, but it feels wonfderfully blissful. Pasha remembers something Sonya said earlier today, something that gave him a small pinch of glee.
“You said you haven’t had a nightmare since we made the pact?”
“Not one. Gave me a sense of stability, I guess. Like I’m taking control.”
Pasha longs for her to say something else, but she doesn’t. “Did you paint another picture after the dream?”
She nods.
“And what do you do with all these pictures?”
“Stick them in my drawer.”
“And?”
“And nothing. They’re just there.”
“And no one knows about your dreams?”
“No one but you.”
“Well, have you tried learning to swim, to conquer the fear?”
“I can swim. I just don’t like being underwater. Or in water when my feet don’t touch the ground. But I tried jumping to the high end of a pool. It got scarier each time I did it. Now I just don’t go around water. It’s easier like this.”
A shape of an idea forms in Pasha’s mind. This spell of warm weather might be exactly what he needs.
“When can we meet this week?” he asks.
“Anya doesn’t have any evening classes, so she’ll probably be my keeper the whole week. So you’ll have to study on your own. I guess we’ll only see each other next Monday, during seder.”
“Or we can skip school on Friday.”
Sonya stops in her tracks. “Skip school? The whole day?”
“Yeah.”
Her hand is stiff as she thinks it over, and a little furrow settles between her brows. It makes Pasha almost giggly. His bad girl is actually good, whatever she might say.
“Come on. You asked me to teach you to be bad. It’s a part of my tutorial.”
“I’ve never cut classes.”
“Never? In eleven years, you didn’t cut a single class?”
“No. What if we miss something important while we’re away?”
“What if we learn something important instead?”
Sonya tilts her head. “You’ve got that bold look now, Pasha.”
“Meet me this Friday at nine on our spot?”
An eternity passes before her face lights up with a smile and she nods. 


Chapter Thirteen


Sonya never thought she’d one day be planning to cut school — let alone enjoying it. But there she is, barely able to focus and tingling with anticipation. On Thursday, before the lessons start, she goes to the library with Anya in tow, saying she needed something for the first class. While Anya wanders around, Sonya sneaks towards a familiar corner, opens the geography book, snatches the note, and hides it in her pocket. She shoves the book back and joins Anya. 
Her hands itch to open the note right then and there, but she has to wait until Anya disappears to her own classroom. Finally, the bell rings, and Sonya joins Alina at the table. She opens the note, heart pounding. Edges and spikes.


Thank you again for going with me. You don’t know what it means. Maybe you do. Sometimes it feels like you know everything without me having to say things. Sorry I don’t say things. 
Bring your bathing suit and your paintings tomorrow. 


Bathing suit? He can’t possibly mean … Sonya rereads the last line several times to make sure she didn’t imagine it. She pushes the note to Alina.
“Read the last line.”
Alina leans over the note. “He knows you’re afraid of the water, right?” she whispers.
“Yeah. He doesn’t mean — swimming — does he?”
Alina quirks an eyebrow. “What else would you need a bathing suit for?”
Alina’s eyes are red, and she probably didn’t have much sleep for the past week. Sonya suspects Alina is tired of her asking how she is every day, but she does it anyway.
“Are you feeling better today?”
Alina shrugs, looking at the teacher. “I guess.”
They’ve seen Nina in the corridors, always too busy in conversations, always in a hurry, never sparing them a glance.
Sonya says, “I’m still feeling bad for skipping school tomorrow and leaving you alone.”
Alina rolls her eyes. “I’m not a baby, I’ll be fine.” Then, she adds, as an afterthought. “But thanks for worrying.”
 Sonya nudges Alina’s shoulder with her forehead before the two of them switch their attention to the teacher. If Sonya is going to skip school tomorrow, the least she can do is focus today.
#


In the evening, Sonya packs her swimming suit, then opens her drawer and takes out a heavy stack of pictures. Pages and pages of blue and black and grey, seemingly the same, yet now she realises each one is unique. On a few, the water is so dark, it’s almost black, and Sonya wonders if those dreams were the worst. The distance between the two rocks is different as well — sometimes they’re close, almost touching, other times they are so far apart, only their edges are visible on two opposite sides of the sheet. The last picture she drew lies on top of the rest — much lighter than most.
Sonya manages to stuff them all into her backpack and gets into bed, but the sleep doesn’t come. Her mind goes berserk with thoughts of what Pasha has planned, of Alina being alone, of her parents finding out she skipped school, of university brochures on the table, of water enclosing around her chest, suffocating her, her feet paralysed by the cold, of her sinking, slowly, gradually, gracefully… 
The alarm clock jingles through the silence. Sonya takes a shower, gets dressed and sits at the kitchen table, pretending to enjoy her toast. Her limbs feel heavy as if she’s been running all night. Every other second, she glances at the phone, her stomach wild with nerves. Papa has already left for work, but Mama drinks her coffee beside her. Thirty minutes before Sonya and Anya have to leave for school, Alina calls. Right on time.
“Hey Alina,” Sonya answers, making sure her Mama is listening. 
“Hey. You’ll never believe it, but I seem to be catching a cold,” Alina says with a mocking tone. “So unexpected, right?”
“Oh no, really?”
“Yup. So come here, feed me broth, wipe my snot. It’ll be fun.”
Sonya is barely able to contain her laughter, but she adopts a concerned face again. “Um, I’ll have to ask Mama.” 
Mama looks at Sonya curiously.
“Mama, Alina is sick and her parents are at work. Would it be okay if I went to her and took care of her? We don’t have that many classes today because Passover is next week. And Alina sounds really horrible.”
“Well, thanks,” Alina mumbles.
“Poor thing,” Mama says, “it must be this flu circulating around. Everyone thinks it’s summer already, and nobody bothers with coats. And it gets so windy in the evenings!”
“So … ?”
“Sure, honey, just wear a flu mask, all right? And get your homework from someone.”
“Of course. I’ll be there soon, Alina.”
“Awesome. Have fun.”
Sonya puts the phone down, heart beating so loud, she’s afraid Mama will hear her. The wonderful thing about being a good girl is her parents always assuming the best of her. It didn’t even cross Mama’s mind that she and Alina might want to skip school together. Let alone Sonya going somewhere with a boy they explicitly told her not to talk to. 
Sonya can barely contain a beam. This is actually rather exciting.
#
When she gets to their spot, Pasha is already there, leaning against the tree, hands in his pockets. 
“Hey. You got the stuff?” he says.
“I did. Tell me we’re not doing what I think we’re doing.”
“I can’t really read your thoughts.” He doesn’t smile, but his tone is mocking. She must look terrified, because the mocking is gone the next second. “Trust me, okay?”
Sonya nods. They take a few stops on the metro and enter a train. It’s nearly empty at this time — most people commute from the suburbs to Moscow in the morning, not the other way around. They study, focusing on English as usual, and Sonya tries to drink in everything. They clawed this extra day themselves, a whole day for just the two of them, and she's set to enjoy every second of it.
A few hours later, they arrive at a town the name of which Sonya forgets the moment she reads it. They pass tiny country shops and identical apartment blocks. Then, the buildings grow scarce, and soon they walk along a narrow road with cars speeding by. A field edges the road on both sides, still blanketed by remains of grey, hard snow. The sun has clambered up while they were in the train and shines on the snow and grass peeking through it.
They make a turn and, just a Sonya expected, there’s a lake straight ahead. It’s exceptionally warm, but April is still too early for a waterfront fun, so only few people are scattered across the pebbled shore — a rowdy family having a picnic, a couple sunbathing, a few loners here and there. Pasha opens his backpack, and throws a thin blanket on the ground.
 Sonya crosses her arms. “Trust you, really?”
“Remember how I didn’t want to go see my father and you convinced me I should risk it?” Pasha takes his t-shirt off. “I thought I should repay the favour. So you’re gonna learn to not be afraid of the water. Face your fear.”
Sonya’s gaze lingers on his freckled shoulders, white chest and belly, then darts back to his face. “You’re crazy.”
“Huh, sounds familiar.”
“I’m not doing it.”
“Yup, that too.” He takes off his shoes and socks. “I’ll go change. Please be here when I come back.”
He sets off, and Sonya follows his lanky, pale figure. She throws her backpack to the ground and sits on the blanket. The lake is calm, only small ripples flutter across its surface from the wind.
“Your turn.”
Pasha is back, wearing baggy swimming shorts. 
“I said I’m not doing it.”
He sits next to her, and their shoulders touch. “Listen, don’t think about being underwater, okay? No one is asking you to plunge in head first. It’s like … ” he is quiet for a moment, then goes on. “It’s like falling in love.”
Sonya turns away from the ripples and faces Pasha. He twists his reddish ear, not meeting her stare.
“You don’t see a person and love them instantly,” he says. “It happens slowly, day by day. Small steps.”
Sonya thinks of Alina. “Yeah, and before you realise it, you’re in so deep that you’re ... ” she halts and gestures at the lake, “drowning.”
“Not necessarily. You can submerge step by step, then emerge a new person.”
Sonya watches two brave little girls run towards the lake, four pink water wings for four little arms. They splash and scream and laugh. 
“This is quite poetic,” Sonya says. “And scary.” 
“I know. But I’ll be with you. We can just walk in, carefully. Together. And we can stop at any time and turn back here.”
Sonya tilts her head back and lets the sun warm her face. Dust and sweat from their walk cover her from her hair to the tips of her toes. The idea of cold water against her skin and Pasha’s hand in hers doesn’t sound that bad. And the shore won’t go anywhere.
She smiles at Pasha. “Wait for me till I change.”
#
When she’s back, Pasha is already dipping his toes in the water. She keeps her hands crossed around her as she walks to him, pinching her elbows. If only she had a new bathing suit — she bought this dark-blue one-piece with her Mama a few years ago, and it’s as ugly as it is uncomfortable. It presses her breasts almost flat, and the edges of the suit carve into her buttocks. When Pasha notices her, he gives her his hand, keeping his eyes on her face.
“Ready?”
“Ready.”
Sonya takes his hand as they wade into the lake. It reaches Sonya’s ankles, knees, bottom, surrounding her, sternly cold yet refreshing. When it’s at the level of her waist, she stops.
“Wait a little.”
“Sure. We can always stop, you know, or go back.”
She breathes in and out, trying to get used to the water’s pressure at her body. Her ugly bathing suit and Pasha’s warm hand don’t matter anymore. There’s a deep lake in front of her, water stretching ahead. A few more steps, and she won’t reach the ground with her feet. She glances back — the shore is still close. Pasha’s hand grips her tighter.
She nods and steps forward. The water reaches her chest, and the pressure is so tight, it’s getting hard to breathe. Sonya stops again, takes deep breaths, getting used to the pressure, gripping Pasha’s shoulder with her free hand. She fears she would misstep and plunge right into the water and breathe in and all the sounds will dim like in her dreams.
“Don’t let me go, okay?”
“Of course.”
They stand there for a while, soft waves washing around them, children splashing at the shore. With every passing second, it gets easier to breathe with her chest compressed by the water.
“In my dreams, I never actually go in like that.” Sonya touches the silky surface of the lake. “I just see it from above and then before I know it, I’m under it and I'm suffocating.”
“That’s why it’s a good thing to go in carefully, isn’t it?”
“It is.” Sonya beams.
She grips his shoulders, pale under the bright sun, and he rests his arms against her back. Moles are sprinkled across his shoulders, arms and chest, like stars. She wonders if she can trace them into constellations, and her face flushes.
“Let’s go further in,” she says.
Pasha makes a few steps, and soon the water reaches his chin. Sonya's toes briefly graze the ground. Instead of fear and panic, a laughter erupts from her chest that doesn’t feel as pressured anymore. She’s almost giddy, like that time they drank cheap wine. From Pasha’s beaming lips so close to hers, from the sun, from her own lightness. She can do anything. 
“You know what’s the weirdest thing in all of this?” she says. “You.”
Pasha’s eyebrows fly upwards, but he keeps on smiling. “Me?”
“I didn’t even know you could smile so much. Look at you! Aren’t your cheeks hurting?” She pinches his cheek. 
“I dunno, just, seeing you so happy — I can’t help it.”
“I remember not so long ago you said there was no point in smiling.”
He nods. “Yeah. I guess I found the point.”
#
They stay in the lake, swimming and splashing and laughing until they get cold. On the shore, they sit on top of Pasha’s blanket, drying under the warm sun, talking and revising a bit more English. A rowdy family start a fire and grill sausages. The salty, juicy smells reach them, making Sonya’s mouth water.
“I’d kill for a good, grilled sausage right now,” Pasha says, throwing glances at them.
Sonya opens her backpack and takes out sandwiches she bought on her way. “It’s not a sausage but here you go.”
Pasha gapes at her. “You’re amazing!” 
He bites into his sandwich. He eats it up in what seems to be seconds, chewing loud, then gulps water like he’s been wandering through the desert for forty years. Sonya barely contains a giggle. He might be a hungry savage sometimes, yet his ears turn pink whenever he pays her a compliment.
The wind rises, and a big grey cloud comes over the sky, shielding the sun from them. Pasha puts on his flannel shirt, not bothering with the buttons, and Sonya is only glad to hide her hideous bathing suit under a sweater.
“I can’t believe I actually enjoyed swimming. Thank you,” Sonya says, cuddling into her sweater.
“You’re welcome. There’s another thing I planned for today.”
Sonya reaches for her backpack. “The pictures.”
“Yeah. I thought it’d be nice for you to talk about them. You pack them in the drawer, never look at them. It can’t be healthy. So, here’s your chance to go through them and talk.”
Sonya removes the pictures from her backpack. It’s a heavy bundle, and she flips through them, blueness staring back at her.
“No,” she says, her voice slightly more curt than she intends.
“Oh.” Pasha’s shoulders droop a little. “I thought you would like the idea.”
“I don’t want — I don’t need to go through them. You know what I really want to do?” She glances at a family near the fire. “I want to burn them.”
Pasha stares at her. “Wh—burn?”
“Yes. I feel like I’m in a loop — I have a dream, paint it, have a dream, paint it. I’m not saying if I burn them, I’d stop having the dreams. But it’s a small step.” She smiles. “Like a small step to get into the water or a small step of falling in love.”
Pasha contemplates the pictures, brow furrowed. “So instead of facing your fear, you want to burn it?”
“No. I want to face it while burning it.”
They borrow the equipment from the family, move to a fire pit nearby, and start the fire together. Though Sonya’s hair is still wet, the heat from the flames washes over her like a mellow, warm wave. It was worth it to go two hours away from Moscow just to enjoy the brilliantly sunny April day. Soon it’s going to be raining again, probably snowing as well, but right now Sonya just savours the stillness. It’s something she never gets to experience in the city. Even at a remote place, even at an odd hour, there’s always a car, a person, a noise.
Here, the sounds are sweet. A man by the fire, playing a guitar. Firewood crackling, ducks quacking. The hum of traffic is so distant, it’s almost soothing. Pasha is in front of her, gazing at her over the fire sparks, his gaze determined and intense.
Sonya moves half of the paintings from the stack towards him. “Shall we?”
He nods. She takes the first piece of paper — a particularly dark painting — and sends it to flames. Pasha does the same, and the two touch each other only to die a few moments later. Sonya takes the next one, and the next, and watches them turn into ashes, one by one.
“Goodbye, fear,” she whispers and throws the last picture into the fire. It crumbles slower than the rest, it seems, unwilling to burn, but soon it is, like the rest of them, gone.
Sonya stretches her hands towards the flames, nearly touching them, and looks at Pasha. “It’s your turn now, you know.”
“To do what?”
“Face your fear. And burn it.” When he doesn’t reply, she goes on. “Your fear, Pasha. You think you’re not needed. That nobody wants you, and you don’t deserve love.”
Pasha rubs his neck, his eyes cast down. Heat burns Sonya from inside, and the flames almost lick her fingers. She can do anything. So can he.
“You have to do it, Pasha. Learn English and talk to Naomi and charm her and live your life how you want it. Doesn’t matter that Lev is pushing Igor. You deserve it as much as anybody else. We can’t fail.” 
Pasha is silent. He looks at her for a while, as if frozen. Maybe they don’t know each other that well, but she knows this is how he processes information. That’s how he’s been when they were little, too.
“The seder, then,” she says. “We’ll study more on our way back and you’ll study during the weekend. And on Monday you’ll impress her with your English and amazing personality, and go to Canada and will live happily ever after, okay?”
“Okay,” Pasha says. As if he knows ‘okay’ is the only answer she’ll accept.
#
“How is Alina?” Mama’s voice carries from the kitchen the second Sonya closes the front door. 
“Better than in the morning, I think.” It wasn’t technically a lie. Sonya called Alina on her way back, and she did seem to be in a better mood.
“Glad to hear. Wash your hands and put a nice dress on. We’re setting the table for Shabbat dinner.”
Sonya changes in her room then opens her drawer. Only a thin purple notebook gazes up at her. Even the eery emptiness of the drawer feels strangely liberating, as if Sonya shed a skin made of led or untangled a knot almost ten years in the making.
In the kitchen, Anya sets the plates down — they’re using fancy china today, for the sake of Shabbat. Mama bustles around the table, a beige, flowery mitpachat tied around her hair. Papa watches them, looking utterly lost, a kippah covering his own head.
“We were waiting for you to make challah,” Papa says.
Mama puts a bundle of towels on the table and opens them, revealing three sets of dough. "Anya said you made them at school.”
Sonya nods.
“Great, then you girls, will be managing the process.”
 It’s nice for a change to teach their parents something instead of the other way around. Sonya and Anya separate their dough into three pieces. Mama and Papa imitate the way Sonya and Anya roll their three pieces, pinch them together at one end and start braiding them. Left to the centre, right to the centre. Mama gets the knack of it at once — “So many times I braided your hair like that” — while Papa mutters under his breath and has to start over a few times.
Soon, the smells of garlic fill the kitchen, the dinner is ready, the challahs are baked. Setting the luscious meat and steaming vegetables on the table, Sonya and Anya sing Sholom Aleichem, and their parents try to sing along, though they don’t know all the words. Mama lights two candles, passes a lighter to Sonya and Anya who light one candle each. Papa says kiddush, a blessing over the wine, his voice staggering over new words. They eat, for the first time in a long time without the ever-present TV in the background. Never did challah taste so good.
Finally full, Sonya leans against her chair, patting her stomach and watching the candles flicker. Pasha is saying the same blessings and sings the same songs at pansion right now. Whatever connection they share now, it will soon be broken. He will be the one Naomi chooses — she knows he will — and he will leave, and they probably will never see each other again. And that’s how it’s supposed to be. It’s not like he should waste such an opportunity only for her. It’s silly to even think about.
And Sonya will stay here, with her family. She can’t afford to lose this connection as well. As the candles are half burnt, Anya and Sonya sing Barry Sisters’ songs, and the kitchen is a dance floor, and her nightmares are just a distant memory. She beams her most sincere smile as she watches Mama and Papa dance together, looking at each other like they haven’t in a long time. Anya giggles, wraps her arms around Sonya, and gives her a smooch on the cheek.
Sonya will look through the brochures tomorrow. Maybe for her, risking means something else.


Chapter Fourteen


Tables covered with white cloths line the school cafeteria — everything is ready for Passover. An actual Passover seder will begin after nightfall, but the school hosts what others call a ‘mini-seder’ for students from non-religious families. Of course, at pansion they have seder dinner every year, but this feels more like a party. Everyone is dressed in fine clothes, and Pasha fiddles with sleeves of his own white shirt. As most things in his life, it was provided to him by pansion and doesn’t fit him well.
Among crowds of chattering people, Pasha spots Naomi and her family. Her husband David with a well-trimmed beard, black hat and peyot — side curls near his ears. Two girls, Dvora and Tzipporah with long brown braids behind their backs, and a little boy, Isaac, dance in circle to some unfamiliar melody in the background, joined by some of the younger students.
Pasha wonders around, keeping Naomi in sight. She’s always in the middle of yet another conversation. Pasha checks to see if Sonya is anywhere around, but only spots Alina. She leans against the wall, watching someone in the crowd. Her dark hair is messy, and her dress is simple yet of such a vivid purple that she attracts many reproachful stares. Pasha is amazed — even dressed according to the tzniut rules, Alina rebels.
He stands next to her, trying to follow her stare. “What are you looking at?” 
“Sonya is not here yet,” she says, ignoring Pasha’s question and tearing her eyes away from the crowd. 
“Do you know if she’ll be here with Anya?”
“Absolutely. The keeper is always vigilant. I’ll cover for you as much as I can.” She smiles.
“Thanks.”
Nina Mandelshtam, a girl from the choir, shuffles towards them, keeping her eyes on Alina who doesn’t seem to notice her. Then Nina swerves to the opposite side of the cafeteria and gets lost among people.
“What was that about?” Pasha mumbles.
“Pasha, I’m curious," Alina says. "Do you really want to go to Toronto? Live a religious life? You don’t strike me as a person who wants to follow the rules.”
He shrugs. “Maybe that’s exactly what I need. Rules. Maybe they’ll help me get on the right track, you know?”
“Yeah. Sonya will be really sad to see you leave.”
His heart skips a beat, then begins pounding violently. “Did she say anything to you?”
Alina looks at him, quirking an eyebrow. “Does she need to?” Then she jerks her head at something behind him. “Here they are.”
At the sight of Sonya, the world slows down. She is wearing a beige blouse, buttoned all the way up, and a deep blue skirt going past her knees. He can’t really tell what it is, but she is impossible to look away from.
“Get behind me,” Alina whispers and moves so that Pasha can hide behind her in an alcove. She is tall enough so he doesn’t have to bend his knees. “Sonya!”
Pasha can’t see what’s happening, but the next moment, Sonya hugs Alina, and her face is barely a millimetre from Pasha’s.
She gapes at him, trying to suppress a laugh. “What are you doing here?”
“Casually hiding behind your best friend.”
Alina shifts a little so three of them can talk without Anya noticing them. Pasha wants to tell Sonya that she is the most beautiful human being he had ever seen in his life, but he can’t move his tongue to utter the words.
“Pasha, ready to speak English?” Sonya asks.
“Uh — yeah, more or less. I need to catch Naomi first, she is never alone.”
“I’m sure you can catch her after the meal. By the way, have you seen Nina?”
Pasha is about to answer, but Alina beats him. “Yes. She’s avoiding me. I caught her looking at me at one point, and she just scurried away as soon as I noticed. Not that I blame her.”
They chat for a while, their hushed voices and Pasha’s secure location making him feel like they are part of some secret society. As they talk more about Nina, Pasha thinks over Alina’s words. ‘Does she need to?’ Pasha’s goal has always been to leave. He was rootless, floating around life like a maple leaf snapped from the branch. But now — 
Pasha shakes his head. None of it matters. He won't stay here just for Sonya. It’s silly to even think about.
The crowd begins to move, snapping Pasha from his thoughts. Everyone gathers around the sinks to wash their hands, then moves towards the tables. Anya emerges next to Sonya and Alina, and they sit together. Pasha finds a seat on the opposite side of the table, right in front of Sonya. A familiar seder plate lies beside him with all the usual ingredients — herbs, potato, egg, salt water.
Naomi and her husband are by the teachers’ table, along with Lev, Dina from pansion, school principal and some other teachers. The principal speaks a few words in Russian, then David stands up. Lev translates his words, but maybe David’s speech is slow or Pasha knows a lot about seder already, but he manages to understand everything without Lev’s translation. Or maybe Sonya’s tutoring didn’t go to waste.
David talks about maror, bitter herbs, that symbolise a bitterness of slavery their ancestors had to endure in Egypt. About charoset, an apple, dates and nuts paste, that has to remind them of clay which they used to produce bricks. About salt water that represents tears and seawater.
Pasha glances at Sonya, and the world stands still again — she watches him. She’s probably been watching him the whole time he listened to David. Does she know he understands everything? Does she realise it’s thanks to her? Is she proud of him?
She smiles. She is the only girl he knows with a smile like that — timid and sneaky at once. The blue of her eyes reminds him of last week, of water, and how she clung to his shoulders, making him feel needed for the first time in his life. How they burned her pictures, and she looked at him over the flames, her hair still a little wet. How he wanted to kiss her then; how he longs to kiss her now.
Round of applause thunders across the cafeteria, and the world keeps on turning. People take their pieces of parsley and dip them into salt water. When Pasha takes a bite of his parsley and looks up at Sonya, she talks to Alina, and the moment is gone.
#


Bits of traditional foods are enough to excite Pasha’s appetite, and when the main course is on the table, he forgets everything that isn’t a hot meal in front of him. It’s not often he can indulge like that, and he’s not going to let this opportunity slip. He attacks whatever his hands can reach, not shying away even from modest tomato salads that they eat an abundance of in pansion. The roasted chicken is deliciously juicy, not the usual boiled rubber, and he helps himself to a second serving. Then a third. He can bet he doesn’t look pretty and only hopes Sonya is too busy chatting to pay attention to his barbaric eating habits. 
 Soon, the crunch of matzot and the clinking of forks against plates grow scarce until they’re overpowered by a hum of conversation. Pasha wipes his mouth and leans back against his chair. He tries to catch Sonya’s glance again, but she’s deep in conversation with Anya and Alina. If she notices him looking, she doesn’t show it. If they’ll get a chance to sneak away and talk, it won’t happen by the table with Anya there. Pasha stands up and wanders around the cafeteria and, without planning it, he stands right in front of Naomi and her husband.
For once, they’re not surrounded by people. Naomi notices him and gives him a wave. This is his chance, but all thoughts leave his mind, including all residual knowledge of English. 
“Hello, Pasha, is it?”
“Yes. Hello.”
He comes up to them. Both are taller than him, impeccably dressed, with astonishing white smiles. He should smile back, but what if there’s parsley stuck between his teeth? Naomi says something, and all Pasha can think is if they notice his black-eye and that his shirt is a bit too big. Then, there is a question, and Naomi looks at him expectantly.
Pasha opens and closes his mouth like a fish out of water. From the depths of his memory, he remembers a phrase Sonya taught him.
“I’m sorry, can you repeat that?”
Naomi chuckles. “Of course, I’m sorry.” She speaks again, slower this time. “Did you read that book? The Road?”
Pasha nearly jumps because this is exactly what he and Sonya practised. Then, he can’t remember a single line, and his heart crashes down from its great height. They’ve practised it. He should know the words. Why doesn’t his mouth work?
The pause stretches for eternity, but Naomi and David wait patiently. Just when Pasha thinks of fleeing from that spot and never showing his face in this school again, a figure appears beside him, saying something to Naomi. Sonya, with her magical smile and her accent so soft and effortless. Pasha’s heart clambers back up, bit by bit.
She turns to Pasha and whispers, “I said we’ve been practising your English together, and they’re very excited that you’re learning it.”
Then, she smiles back to Naomi and they talk relatively slow. Sonya gives Pasha plenty of moments to jump in, but his mind is over-excited. Sonya near him, so pretty in her blouse and skirt; Naomi and David actually paying attention to him and seemingly not judging him for his black-eye. It’s too much of everything, his mind can’t stop buzzing, and there’s no way he can remember a single word in English.
“Pasha?” Sonya says, quietly.
“Sorry, my mind is blank.”
“Anya is looking for me. I have to go.”
“No, don’t — ”
“She sees me. Talk to them.”
She throws the last glance at Pasha and disappears into a crowd.
Naomi smiles. “I’m glad you’re learning English,” she says. At least he can understand her. “Is it difficult?”
Pasha nods and tries to smile back, but it comes out forced. Then, there is someone else beside them — Lev, his hand on Igor’s shoulder. Both talk to Naomi, Lev calm and eloquent as always, but Igor mumbling not better than Pasha just did.
Igor doesn’t turn to Pasha, doesn’t give him a smug look. He simply shifts so that Pasha is excluded from their little circle. Fury raises inside Pasha, and his fists clench before he can stop it. It’s so easy to just shove Igor, then punch him hard. Screw everything, he already messed it all up. He let Sonya down, let Naomi down, and now there’s nothing left to lose. All he has to do is let his rage out. 
Instead, he takes a deep breath. He’s under their tree, cool grass beneath him, pigeons cooing in the distance. Sun rays play on Sonya’s curls, and she smells of every beautiful blue thing. 
He exhales, turns around, and walks out of the cafeteria, away from the voices, into the corridor. He scans the crowd, but Sonya is nowhere to be seen. She is as unattainable as Naomi. 
“Psst.” 
Alina jogs towards him. “Sonya is in the music room. Waiting for you.”
“And Anya?”
“I distracted her.” Alina winks. “She might start looking for Sonya soon, though.”
“Thanks again.”
Pasha speeds up across the nearly empty corridors. The farther he walks, the more excited he is to finally be alone with Sonya, but also terrified of being alone with Sonya. He completely blew the chance that she worked so hard to give him — and he couldn’t remember anything apart from that one phrase. What a complete — 
Soft piano notes come out of the music room. Something sad, yet hopeful, that shuts all negative thoughts from his head. He carefully opens the door and enters the room on tiptoes. Sonya sits at the piano, relaxed and natural, same as when she speaks a foreign language. Her long fingers flow effortlessly across the black and white keyboard. Sunshine squeezes through small a window, falling on her shoulders.
The music echoes in an empty room, calming him, relaxing his clenched muscles. If only he could stop time, and live in this moment forever. He could’ve made himself invisible, and listen her play for eternity, watch her chest rise and fall, her foot press the pedal.
 Sonya notices him and nods but doesn’t stop playing. Soon, the notes reach their final destination, and she slows down and stops. 
“Wow. Was that Beethoven or something?” Pasha asks.
She whirls towards him on a swinging chair with a chuckle. “Beethoven? You don’t know anything about music, do you? No, it’s something I wrote a while ago.”
“You wrote it? But that — that was amazing.”
“Well, I’m flattered, but the fact that you thought it was Beethoven doesn’t say much about your knowledge of music.” Even though she says it, her cheeks turn pink.
He walks up to her, unable to turn his eyes away. “Come on. I have ears. And I loved it. Trust me — I don’t say stuff like that easily.”
She shrugs. “Okay.”
“We really need to work on your skills of accepting compliments.”
At this, she laughs, tilting her head backwards, and Pasha’s heart soars again. Maybe she’s not disappointed in him at all. He sits on a bench beside her.
“I actually brought you here for a reason,” Sonya says after she’s done laughing. She takes a piece of paper from her pocket, spreads it and gives to Pasha. On it are all the phrases they’ve been learning, written in Sonya’s cursive handwriting. “I thought you might need a little reminder. Do you want to practice?”
All Pasha wants to do is tell her that she’s the best friend he ever had and then maybe kiss her, but he just nods. He beats himself for being unable to even say ‘thank you’, but then he focuses on the dialogue. He can’t blow his second chance.
“Now go and charm Naomi,” Sonya says after they’ve gone through all the phrases.
“Yeah. Um.” He gathers his courage. “Thanks for it. Really.”
“You’re welcome.” She stands up. “Remember this feeling I had, that all is lost? It’s gone now. Naomi seems to like you. And we celebrated Shabbat this Friday with my family and, you know what, I really enjoyed it. I’m starting to think this whole being religious thing is not as bad as I thought.”
Pasha stares at her. “What changed?”
“I talked to David, Naomi’s husband. He plays piano, guitar, trumpet — it’s incredible. And he does all that in addition to being a rabbi in Toronto. I don’t know, I talked to him and thought maybe if I turn religious, it’ll be easier for me to pursue music.”
“Sonya, do you hear yourself?” Pasha can’t help the coarseness of his own voice, and Sonya’s smile vanishes. “You can’t just hope religion will solve all your problems. You have to talk to your parents, so they let you live your own life.”
Sonya gives him a dirty look, so jarring on her usually friendly face. “Well, look who’s talking. Aren’t you using religion to solve all your problems?”
“It’s different. I don’t mind becoming religious if that can help me be a better person. But do you want this life? Are you ready for the commitment of religion?”
“Maybe I am!”
“Didn’t you have a nightmare after Anya gave up all your clothes? Didn’t you say you didn’t want rules to dictate you how to live your life?”
“I can make some sacrifices.”
Pasha throws up his hands. “Sacrifices. You call them sacrifices, Sonya. It doesn’t sound like it’s something you truly want.”
“Do you truly want to go to Toronto?”
“Yes.”
Sonya’s look pierces him, and long silence crackles between them. When she speaks, her voice burns like acid. “Why are you talking me out of it?”
Pasha fumbles with a piece of paper she’s given him. “You push me forward to do things that scare me all the time. Now I’m pushing you. Be brave, like you were in the water. Be honest with yourself — ”
“We’re wasting our time here.” Sonya spins and darts to the door, her blue skirt fluttering. “You really need to go and talk to Naomi before you forget everything.”
Pasha opens his mouth, but she’s already out the door.


Chapter Fifteen


People in the cafeteria are mingling and dancing, but the noises do nothing to distract Sonya from her thoughts. With so little time she and Pasha have left together, he had to ruin it. He had to start talking her out when she finally set her mind on following her family into religion. He’s going to leave soon, so why does he care what path she choses? A nervous trembling comes through Sonya’s body, covering her arms with goosebumps, and she hugs herself, wandering around the cafeteria.
She spots Pasha. He has this bold look in his eyes as he comes up to Naomi, and Sonya can’t tear her gaze off him. He’s so different from that boy who extended his hand to her under the tree — he stands straighter, doesn't avoid looking at Naomi, his eyes almost glowing with determination, as if some light has been switched inside him.
Pasha sits next to Naomi and says something to her, and she responds with a smile. Sonya creeps closer and sits nearby, glancing up at them occasionally, her hands folding a napkin into a crane.
“It is very difficult,” Pasha says, making pauses between words, “because it is different.”
“Of course.” Naomi nods. “The alphabet. I’ve only studied French and Spanish myself, and both are pretty similar to English. And how is your Hebrew?”
“Hee — what?”
Sonya cringes. Of course she understands that in Russian it’s ivrit, and the words are completely different, but she can’t very well jump in and explain it to Naomi.
But Naomi smiles, and says, “Ivrit.”
“Oh! Um. Ani lo medaber ivrit.” I don’t speak Hebrew.
Sonya chuckles, and so does Naomi. 
“Well, that’s a start,” Naomi says.
“Um, the book — The Road — I want to read, but it is — um — many difficult words.”
“Oh, I understand. But you’re on your way there.”
“Uh, yeah.”
Sonya is aware how much it costs Pasha to smile to a person he barely knows, but he does it with sincerity. He doesn’t try to hide his nervousness, and it ends being endearing. At least, to Sonya, but she hopes Naomi sees it this way as well.
“Did you read it?” he asks Naomi, his fingers fumbling with his shirt sleeves.
“A while ago, but it’s still one of my favourite books. I hope to reread it soon.”
They talk more about the book, then a little about school, and Pasha' posture relaxes more and more. His dream will come true, there’s no doubt about it. He will leave, and Sonya’s own life will go right back to its usual routine. Sonya chucks the napkin away — it’s too soft to hold the folds and got torn in a few places. What was she hoping to achieve, using a napkin instead of a paper? It was doomed from the start.
She watches Pasha, aching to remember every little thing about him. His tousled fair hair falling on his forehead. The timbre of his voice, low and soft. The way he twists his ear when he’s nervous or tilts his head when he listens. His smell that reminds her of spring, of life awaking after a long slumber, of buds unfolding and snow melting.
After only a month of this connection, she will lose it. A little evil thought that pesters her day and night resurfaces now, and Sonya tries to shove away. But it breaks through, against her control, wishing hard that Pasha would fail, would stay, that the connection wouldn’t be lost.
Sonya recoils from the thought as if it’s something alien. No, he will succeed, he will leave, he will be happy. It’s her way of praying — repeating it again and again. He will succeed, he will leave, he will be happy.
And after he leaves, she would try hard to have the connection again — to get closer to her family. To care for Anya the same way Anya cares for them all. And if that means religion, well, maybe that’s exactly what Sonya needs. 
She has completely lost track of the conversation, and when she turns back to Pasha and Naomi, they are already leaving. Her instinct tells her to follow them, but Sonya doesn’t move. She has to start letting go. Instead, she looks for Alina and spots her chatting with some of their classmates, or rather, being chatted to. Alina was never a kind of person to suffer through a boring conversation out of politeness, but now her chin rests in her palm, her expression blank. 
Sonya comes up to them and says, “Alina? I need your help with something.”
Alina follows her to a quiet hall and lets out a breath. “I think I dozed off for a moment. Did Pasha find you?”
“Yeah, thanks for that. He’s talking to Naomi now. How are you? What about Nina? Have you tried to talk to her?”
“No.” Alina bites her nails. “If anything, she should initiate conversation now. I wish I could simply come up to her, but it doesn’t feel right. We’re just passing each other as though nothing ever happened.”
“I’m sorry. Tell me, did you end up being disappointed in her, though?”
Alina smiles bitterly. “She’s definitely not what I imagined. But not in a bad way. I dunno, I pictured her as perfect, but the fact that she’s real and flawed makes her even better. For example, she was once responsible for letting the whole class know the address of the museum or something, and she messed up, and everyone came to a different place, and then they were late and they blamed her, and she’s still so ashamed of it. But stories like this only make me appreciate her more.”
Sonya nods. She can relate. She’s been thinking about Pasha a lot throughout the years, remembering their short-lived friendship, drawn to the idea of him, of the first connection she had. But knowing the true him, more broken and resilient than she could have imagined, is what made her appreciate him for real.
A gathering on the other side of the cafeteria attracts Sonya’s attention, and Naomi urges everyone to sit where they can. The choir girls come to stand near the window, and everyone gathers around them, but Sonya and Alina stay where they are, in the space between the cafeteria and the hall. Nina has a flowing yellow dress on, and a tiny crease rests between her eyebrows. They sing a haunting melody in Hebrew, more pure and personal than what they usually perform for big school performances. Their voices mix in a wonderful symphony that floats around the room, making boys and girls, men and women, children and grown-ups sniffle.
Sonya finds Alina’s hand with her own and holds it tight. Alina squeezes it back, wiping the tears from her cheeks. Soon, nearly the whole room is crying, and more than anything Sonya wants to hold Pasha close — or at least to see him listen to the melody, maybe catch his eye — but she can’t find him.
The melody is over, and people hug and cry and talk in hushed whispers. 
Alina sniffles and is about to say something to Sonya when she gasps and squeezes Sonya’s hand tight, too tight. Nina walks towards them, wringing her wrists.
“Hey,” Nina says, her voice too raspy after her singing falsetto.
“Hey,” Sonya and Alina call back.
Nina opens her mouth, but no sound comes out. Still wringing her wrists, she gulps, takes a breath and looks down at her shoes. Alina waits patiently. Sonya wonders if she should leave, but Alina’s grip is tight, holding on to her.
“I’m sorry I ran away that day,” Nina finally says. “And I’m sorry I didn’t talk to you this whole time. I was … processing.”
“It’s okay, you don’t have to apologise.” 
“No, it was rude.” Nina tries to go on, but instead bites her lip, throwing glances at Sonya.
“Maybe I should — ” Sonya begins.
“No, stay,” Nina says.
Sonya understands what Alina means by appreciating Nina more for her realness. Nina does look like an angel when she sings, but now her blush is bright red and splotchy, and that makes her way more beautiful.
“So, I was processing, like I said,” Nina goes on. “It took me a while to sort through everything that’s happening inside me. And I was very confused — I still am. I — I think you’re amazing, Alina. I always have, although I was too afraid to say anything to you. I guess I had this crush on you, but also, not on you, you know? It was the idea of you that I liked. You were so cool and brave, not afraid of anything, and it drew me to you.
“But then we began hanging out, and … I never connected with anyone the way I connected with you and the days we spent together — I never laughed so much in my entire life. I think you’re also beautiful, and even before, I had thoughts of — of kissing you.” A scarlet blush spreads across Nina's face, and she looks down at her shoes. “Sorry, I’m so confused.” She hides her face in her hands.
“Hey, it’s okay.” Alina lets go of Sonya’s hand and reaches out to Nina.
“I just don’t know wh — what’s wrong with me. I mean, I like boys. But,” her face is completely red now, but she doesn’t hide it anymore. She meets Alina's eyes. “I also like you in a more-than-a-friend sense.”
Alina smiles. “Well, I like you in a more-than-a-friend sense as well.”
Nina’s face freezes, but instead of returning Alina’s smile, she frowns. “You seem so comfortable with it — I don’t understand.”
“I’ve always known who I am, but it doesn’t have to be the same for you. It’s okay to still be figuring things out. It’s okay to like both girls and boys.”
Nina drops her gaze on the floor. “My parents will never understand. Ever. I hate that I feel it.”
“Please, don’t,” Alina says.
They say nothing for a moment, then Alina takes Nina’s hand and both just stare at their joined hands.
Sonya recalls the wonderful giddiness of holding Pasha’s hand for the first time and guesses neither Alina nor Nina will even notice if she disappears. She slips back into the cafeteria and looks around, aching to see Pasha more than ever now, and her heart does a somersault when she spots him. He’s in the far end of the room with Naomi and her husband, all three laughing and smiling. It’s a glorious moment for him, and this is supposed to be her success, her moment of pride.
Then why does it feel like a downfall?
#
When it is time for Sonya and Anya to go home, Sonya can’t find Pasha to say goodbye — when they come up to Naomi and her husband to thank them for the evening, he isn’t there. At least it is a great day for Alina. When Sonya says goodbye to her, she and Nina are still holding hands, both unable to suppress gigantic smiles.
On their way home, Anya talks about Naomi and her family and a happy religious life that they have. Sonya tries to listen to her, but her mind keeps going back to Nina wringing her hands and blushing and gulping, yet still brave enough to tell the truth, looking Alina in the eyes.
Sonya enters the apartment and slips into her soft tapochki when Mama calls from the living room. Both she and Papa look at her with grim expressions when she walks in. Anya prances inside with Sonya and is about to talk more about seder, but Papa stops her and mutes the TV.
“Sonya, sit down, please,” Papa says.
Sonya’s mind races. What did she do? Did she forget to wash the dishes? Got a bad mark? A horrible thought flashes that they might’ve found the stack of blue pictures, but she realises with relief that they no longer exist. 
“We got a very strange call today,” Papa says as she sits.
Mama purses her lips, and Anya moves her head from Mama to Papa, as if she is trying to come up with a plan to make everyone smile again.
Papa goes on, “A man from Obninsk called, saying that you and his son who lives in pansion stole something very valuable from him. Is it true?”
Sonya’s tongue refuses to move. How did he find out her number? Was the brooch really that expensive? Is Pasha safe?
“Sonya!” Papa snaps his fingers. “I asked you a question.”
“Is it the same boy?” Mama asks, and Sonya can almost hear her think ‘please say no’. “He’s dangerous, Sonya.”
“He’s not,” Sonya mumbles. “Anya — you saw him talking to Naomi today, and she really liked him.”
Anya doesn’t get a chance to answer. Papa’s voice booms above them, “So it is true? You went with him to Obninsk without telling us?”
Sonya nods.
“And did you steal something from his father?”
“No. We took something back — something that belongs to Pasha.”
Mama grabs Papa by his shoulder, as if afraid she would fall even sitting down. “My goodness! Sonya, I know you’re seventeen and think bad boys are interesting, but he just used you. He tricked you into theft.”
A memory of Pasha crying after meeting his father floats in Sonya’s mind. Heartbroken, his hopes shattered, clinging to her like a child.
“He used you, that — that bastard — "
“It wasn’t him, okay?” Sonya rises on her feet, towering over her parents. “I was the one who suggested it. He didn’t even want to do it. Stop turning me into a brainwashed victim! I can tell a bad person from a good person.”
They stare at her, mouths gaping. Never in her whole life did she raise her voice at them. Never did she contradict them. Never even so much as a pip against their wishes.
It was long overdue.
“I didn’t tell you I was going to Obninsk with him not just because I knew you wouldn’t let me — I simply needed that. I needed risk and danger because you’ve always kept me in a tight blanket, so tight that I couldn’t breathe. If you don’t ever let me make my own mistakes, I’ll never learn!”
“Sonya, sit,“ Papa says, avoiding looking at her. As if he is afraid to catch her insanity through her eyes. 
“No!” Blood rushes through Sonya’s veins, urging her to yell and scream and throw stuff around. “What, surprised that I’m even capable of saying ‘no’? Do you want to know what else I did? I tried smoking. And alcohol. And I cut school. And I did it just in spite of you and your glorious plans for me.”
“Sonya,” Mama says, her face pale, unreadable, “where is this all coming from?”
“From ME! It’s always been inside me, you just pushed it down and down and down and there you go — enjoy the diarrhoea. And you know what else? Alina likes girls. Likes kissing girls. And that doesn’t make her NOT NORMAL!”
She waits for her parents to shout back, and she'll yell at them again, pour everything out as loud as she can — but she gets silence instead. Tears stream across Mama's cheeks as she gapes at Sonya, and Papa stands up, still avoiding her eyes, head bowed low.
“Your mother and I tried very hard to raise you to be a good girl, to respect older people and be polite. It seems we have failed. Go to your room, Sonya, and don’t expect to go out anywhere this school break. You’ll sit here and think about what you’ve said and done.”
Heart threatening to burst out of her ribcage, Sonya storms out and bangs the door to her room shut. She packs a few pairs of socks, some underwear, and pyjamas into the backpack. If only she could sneak out like they do in the movies — through the window of her upper floor bedroom, down the tree trunk, out across the lawn, towards freedom.
Instead, she has to wait for the opportunity to come.
The door opens, and Anya’s quiet steps shuffle in. Sonya shoves the backpack under her bed.
“Sonya — ”
“Get off.”
“I only wanted to — ”
Sonya squeezes past her and dashes into the bathroom and locks herself there. She splashes cold water on her face, trying to calm down, but blood still boils inside her. Her parents’ disappointed faces appear behind her eyelids as she closes her eyes. There goes her connection. There goes everything she began to make peace with. Sonya turns off the tap and slides down the wall, facing the old, dirty bathtub. She wishes the faces would disappear, but even if they do, those same faces will meet her in the living room, in the kitchen, whenever she turns a corner in their tiny apartment.
Mama’s and Anya’s voices come from the kitchen. Sonya takes her toothbrush from the cup and tiptoes into the bedroom. She texts and calls Alina, but there’s no answer. She paces across the room. She changes from her new blouse and burgundy skirt into jeans and her Rolling Stones T-shirt. She sits by the window, watching sparrows pecking on the playground. She picks up a book, throws it aside. She rereads Pasha’s notes from the purple notebook. She writes a note to her parents. 
A few hours pass when her parents get dressed and leave the apartment. Sonya is ready to go, waiting only for Anya. Sometime later, Anya goes into the bathroom and Sonya, her heart beating like a drum, grabs her backpack, leaves the note in her parents’ bedroom, and leaves the apartment.
#
The metro carriage sways Sonya, calms her with the noise, rushing her away, away, away. Her hands rest on her backpack. The only thing she wants now is to see Pasha, but she has to let him go and stop thinking of him in stressful situations. He’s not here to cheer her up; it’s never been about that. He was a provider of goods, a gateway into the forbidden world. And she was supposed to help him with his studies, not fall for him.
Sonya shakes her head and puts her headphones over her ears, turning on the volume, hoping the music would muffle her thoughts. As Gymnopedie by Erik Satie plays, she focuses on the notes travelling up and down, questioning her, soothing her. Soon, she’s at Alina’s apartment, and her mother lets her in.
She is a woman in her late forties, still looking young and fresh and dressed by the latest fashion. A nasty thought flashes in Sonya’s mind — she wishes her Mama was as stylish and modern — then a pang hits her when she remembers her Mama’s quiet, tear-blotched face.
“Sorry, Sonechka, but Alina is not home,” Alina’s mum says.
“Did she say when she’ll be back?”
“No. She went to the cinema with Nina after seder. Would you like to come in for some tea? You seem distressed.”
“Uh — no, thanks. I’m fine.” 
Sonya fakes her big, beaming smile, and Alina’s mum is smiling back at her. Soon, Sonya is underground yet again, then out in the street, refusing to admit where her legs carry her, even as the pansion building towers before her.
Sonya comes up to a woman at the reception, saying she’s here to see Pasha Aronov, then walks along the corridors to his room. She’s never been in pansion before, and it’s different from what she imagined. It’s not a grey, smelly, run-down place. The wallpaper might be worn-out and the furniture is too old, but the rooms are clean and bright. A few familiar people from school pass her by, but no one seems to pay her any attention. As she nears Pasha’s room, she hears noises coming from an open door. She picks up her pace, ready to fling her arms around Pasha and hold him close and relish in the comfort of his warmth, his smell, his lips — 
She bumps into a full-grown man and nearly falls down. For a split of a second, she doesn’t recognise him, then, of course, the scruffy beard and the tall shape come back to her memory. 
Pasha’s father gawks at her, his eyes blood-shot, as if he was drinking or crying several days straight.
“Where’s Pasha?” he asks the question that is about to escape her own lips.
“I don’t know.”
The room is a mess — the cupboards are open, the clothes are on the floor, the duvet overthrown, and Pasha’s roommate side seems to be in the same state.
Ilya makes a staggering step towards Sonya. “Where’s the brooch?”
“I — I don’t know.”
She tries to leave, but he puts both arms around her shoulders, trapping her like a bird. He’s more than a full head taller than she is, but the reek of alcohol still reaches her.
“I know you took it,” he says, voice strained and broken. “I need it, you understand me?”
“It belongs to Pasha!” The blood that still hasn’t cool down begins to boil with a renewed force. “Don’t you get it — he needs to have something from his family. You’re not here to give it to him, then at least let him have the brooch, you buffoon!”
Sonya steps on his toe with all her might, wiggles out and flees as fast as she can. She will make it to the school in five minutes if she runs, and the adrenaline rushes her forward like a fair wind. The rain drizzles, dulling the noises of the evening city, and her heavy backpack tugs at her shoulders.
Though she doesn’t look back, she’s almost certain Ilya follows her, screaming and cursing on his way, but it might as well be her imagination. Soon enough, she is safely in the school library, out of breath, her side pricking.
Sonya walks past the shelves — please, please, be here — and there Pasha is, a familiar flannel shirt on, a glorious sight.
She rushes towards him and holds on to a nearby shelf, clutching her side, breathing hard.
“Sonya — what’s wrong?”
“It’s — your dad — in your room — I ran.”
“Shit. In my room? Here, sit down.”
“No time.” Sonya grabs Pasha’s forearm. “I’m not sure, but — I think he might’ve followed me.” 
There are steps, echoing in the empty library. 
“Pavel?”
The voice is unmistakably his, saying Pasha’s name with a father’s authority he doesn’t deserve. 
“We have to run,” Sonya whispers. “He’s drunk.”
Pasha wavers, a doubt creasing his brow. “Wait.”
He steps from between the shelves into an open space, and Sonya follows him, ready to pull him out of the library and away from his father if she has to.
“Can we talk?” Pasha says calmly.
“I need my brooch back.”
“It’s not yours. It was my grandma’s and my mum’s — you said it. It’s mine now.”
“Is that her shit talk?” Ilya nods at Sonya.
“Come on, let’s try to be civil.” Pasha takes a step towards Ilya, and Sonya grabs the hem of his shirt.
“I thought we were done being civil when you stole something from me.”
“Can we just talk, please?” Pasha says again, his voice louder now.
“What on Earth do you want to talk about?”
Pasha gulps. “Mum’s grave.”
Of course. Pasha still has a grain of hope that his father is more than just a desperate drunk, that he’s the one who takes care of the grave. A shadow passes across Ilya’s face, and he struggles to come up with words. He shakes his head and moves towards them, eyes glued to Pasha’s pockets.
“Do you have it on you now?” he says and, without any warning, charges at them.
Sonya pulls at the hem of Pasha’s shirt. They run at the exit, Pasha grabbing his backpack at the last moment, and the librarian’s voice catches with them. 
“Be quiet, it’s a library!”
But they’re already out, the third time Sonya runs away this day. The grey clouds hang even lower now, and the rain has made puddles out of craters on the road. Pasha grips Sonya’s hand as they dash, and this time she hears Ilya screaming as he chases after them, swearing and calling Pasha’s name. 
Sonya is soon out of breath again, but she rushes forward, away, not sure if she’s drenched in sweat or rain. Pasha’s hand slips out of hers, but they find each other again and again. There’s a bus stop close by with a bus about to leave. Sonya pushes herself faster, faster, until they reach the doors and jump in. But the time Ilya catches up, they are ready to disappear behind a turn.
#
 They go the end of the bus and lean against the window, facing each other. It takes them a few minutes to restore their breathing, but even after Sonya breathes normally, her heart still races. Too much has happened, and she hasn’t processed any of it. Pasha is right here with her again, after she’s made peace with him leaving. Her Mama’s tears and her Papa’s pursed lips appear behind her eyelids. She can still smell Ilya's reeking breath and hear his curses following them.
It’s hard to breathe, and Sonya battles the rising feeling in her chest, but she can’t hold it in — her face screws up, the gulp in her throat is too painful, and tears sting her eyes.
“Sonya?”
Pasha touches her shoulder, just as she hoped, just as she feared. With one simple touch, the dam breaks, and she lets her shoulders shake and her tears roll, wailing so loud, the whole bus probably hears her. Pasha holds her closer, and though his clothes are all wet and he’s shivering from the cold, he still gives her his warmth.
“I’m scared,” is all she can say through the sobs, her face tucked into an alcove between his neck and shoulder.
“I know. I’m so sorry,” Pasha whispers. “I hate that he came.” 
“No. Not him. I just — I — ” She dissolves into more tears and gulps the air, drowning all over again. “I had a row with my parents. I shouted, and my mum cried, and they looked so disappointed. I packed my backpack and left.”
Pasha doesn’t say anything, just holds her tighter as she tells him everything that happened since they parted in the music room. She’s not even sure he can hear her, but she keeps talking and he keeps nodding. The bus keeps going, letting people out and in, their umbrellas opening and closing, dripping on the floor.
“It’s going to be okay,” Pasha says when she finishes. “You’ll make up with your parents. You took the risk, you faced your fear, like with swimming.”
“No. I plunged head first, and now I’m sinking and I can’t breathe.”
His lips touch her temple, tentatively, stay there for far too short and leave. As the bus carries them forward, Sonya’s tears dry out, and they keep holding each other, leaning against the window. 
“Are you okay?” she asks after her breathing has levelled. “After seeing your father again?”
He doesn’t answer at once. He takes a lock of her hair into his hand and twirls the curl around his finger. “How can you even think about me at this moment, after what happened?”
Sonya wants to say there’s barely been a moment she hasn’t thought of him in the past month but stays silent.
“I’ve been better, I guess,” Pasha says. “Trying to decide what to do, where to go.”
“You think he’ll be waiting for you at pansion?”
“I’m sure of it.”
“You — you thought it was him who took care of the grave, didn’t you?”
Pasha nods. “Doesn’t matter now. Maybe it’s better that it’s not him. Fewer people to say goodbye to when I leave.”
Sonya’s stomach twists in knots. A bus lurches on a bump, and she fears she might throw up. She moves away from Pasha and takes a few breaths until the queasiness is gone. Fewer people to say goodbye to. 
She looks up at Pasha, hoping her face is not too splotchy. “Let’s stay up all night.”
“Huh?”
“There’s no school tomorrow, and we both have nowhere to go. We can study a little — ” She wants to say, You’re going to need English when you're in Canada, but can’t muster the words. Instead, she says, “ — and then go someplace and dance all night.”
Pasha squirms. “I don’t know. I’m a horrible dancer.”
Sonya smiles sincerely for the first time in what feels like an eternity. “So am I.”


Chapter Sixteen


Pasha follows Sonya along towards a club where Alina and Nina would be waiting for them. A greedy part of Pasha wants to spend the night with Sonya without her friends, without anyone at all but the two of them. But another part, the one that makes him go forward, realises that seeing Alina and having some fun might do good for Sonya.
The sky has darkened and turned dark-grey, reflecting the illumination of the city. Pasha and Sonya push through the evening throng, past modern glass buildings and intricate facades of the old, their hands clasped together. 
Pasha’s mind returns to the conversation with Naomi and her husband. It went so well, pride almost bursts from his chest. He gives Sonya a sideways glance. He’s going to accept the offer and fly across the gigantic ocean. A huge, enormous body of water and land and visas and so many things between him and Sonya.
He has to be reasonable about it. It’s not like they love each other and want to marry each other and be together for the rest of their days. There are more important things at stakes — his future being one of them. Still, as he repeats it again and again, his heart, like a silly ostrich, seems to compress into itself, hide from the inevitable heartbreak it knows is going to come.
When they arrive at the club, Alina waves at them from a table in a corner. Both she and Nina still wear their dresses from seder, looking strangely out of place in a club, like two medieval women in the middle of a busy Moscow street.
The club’s lights are dim, and in their corner it’s quieter than Pasha expected. In the opposite corner, people are dancing to the nineties music, and everywhere in-between the tables are packed. Waiters squeeze through with their trays lifted above their heads, filled with fancy cocktails in fancy glasses.
“What’s everybody doing out on Monday evening?” Sonya says as she gives Alina and Nina a hug before taking off her coat. “It’s so crowded.”
“Are there places in Moscow that aren’t crowded, though? Ever?” Alina raises a brow.
“Fair point.”
They sit at the table, a single tealight in its middle.
“So what happened? You made it sound so mysterious on the phone.”
“Well. I ran away from home.”
Alina gapes at her. “WHAT?”
“I couldn’t take it anymore. I sort of told my parents everything that’s been on my mind.” Sonya snatches a napkin and begins folding and unfolding it. “That I don’t want to follow them blindly into religion, that they’ve been suffocating me. Told them about you as well.”
Pasha must be looking confused, because Alina says, “I’m a lesbian.”
Her loud voice booms around the club, and Pasha’s face turns red involuntarily. He knows of some gay people in school, but these things are always hushed, rumoured. No one has ever admitted it so openly, with such pride.
“Alina, that was loud,” Sonya mutters.
“Oh, come on,” Alina says. “I don’t care who knows.”
She gives Nina a glance. Pasha has never seen a girl look at another girl this way. He probably looks at Sonya the same way — a mix of admiration and awe and desire. 
Nina is bright red even in the dim lights, but she smiles back.
“So how did they react?” Alina asks. “Did they shout?”
“That’s the thing — no. Mama cried and Papa said that I’m not to go anywhere this school break. Anya was nearly crying as well. It was horrible. I kind of wish they would’ve screamed.”
“Don’t wish that,” Nina says. “My father’s in the military. And my mum, well, she’s just a very loud person. So they scream a lot — at each other, at me. It’s not fun.”
“Oh, sorry,” Sonya says. “They don’t mind you’re out so late?”
“I told them I’m staying at my friend’s place.” She looks at Pasha. “And you?” 
“Um — I doubt they’d notice I’m not there.” Something pricks his chest as he says it. Maybe Lev would notice? He shakes this thought off right away. Lev is not his father. Lev has never been his father. 
Everybody looks at Alina. 
“I don’t want to brag,” she says, “but I told my parents I’m gonna walk around the city all night with a friend.”
 Pasha stares at her. “And they’re okay with it?”
“Alina’s parents are the best,” Sonya says. 
A waiter in a black and red Kurt Cobain shirt comes with food. For a few minutes, they all chew and share, Pasha trying hard to keep himself from gobbling up everything in front of him in a second.
Nina is the first to finish her meal. “Alina, do your parents know you’re — ” She stares at her plate “ — you know — a lesbian?”
“Nope. They’re progressive, but not that progressive. But they love me. I’m sure they’ll understand.”
“Best parents ever,” Sonya whispers in awe.
Pasha catches Nina biting her lips, staring down at her plate again. He doubts her military father would be as understanding. 
“So, should we drink something?” Sonya says, and everybody stares at her.
“I thought you didn’t like drinking last time?” Pasha says.
“No, but I’m devoted to my education, and I’ve never tried a cocktail.”
Alina jumps up. “I know exactly what to get.”
She goes for the bar and returns in a few moments with the waiter in tow. He puts four shots in front of each, a bottle with a green liquid, and a small plate with sugar cubes.
“Absinth,” Alina whispers. “Not exactly a cocktail, but I heard it’s really good.”
The waiter puts a sugar cube on top of every shot, pours absinth so that it soaks the cubes and drips into the shots. Then he lights all four cubes on fire.
The four of them gasp.
“Wait for the cubes to melt, then drink,” the waiter smiles and leaves. He doesn’t seem to be much older than they are. Pasha wonders what kind of fishy place this is that they serve alcohol to minors. 
Sonya takes his hand under the table and the shot with another. Everyone follows her example.
“My parents usually say long toasts before they drink,” Nina says as their sugar cubes have melted. “Should we say something?”
“Let’s just say, l’chaim,” Alina suggests.
“L’chaim!” Everybody joins in. To life.
Pasha takes a swig of the shot — bitterness burns his throat, and he remembers biting bitter herbs just that morning during seder, sitting opposite Sonya, so close and so far. Now she’s right beside him, her hand in his, and the liquid is hot and cold, and sweet and bitter at the same time. He faces Sonya as she licks her own lips, face screwed up. Her eyes are blazing with blueness even in this dim light, and he hears the melody she played in the music room despite the sounds of Spice Girls above them.
They drink a bit more, eat a lot more, talk about everything from the upcoming exams to their weirdest dreams. Pasha didn’t know he could be that comfortable around two people he didn’t even speak to a day ago. But Alina’s vigour doesn’t allow for awkward pauses, and Nina’s nervous energy resonates so well with his own.
 When the plates are sprinkling clean, Nina stands up and offers Alina her hand. “Dance with me.”
Alina’s expression transforms to enchantment in a moment. She rises, takes Nina’s hand and follows her, no questions asked. Pasha has only a second to worry that Sonya wants to dance as well and how he can avoid it, when her head rests on his shoulder, her curls tickling his neck and chin. He finds her hands and clasps them with his own.
“Tired?” he asks.
She smiles and doesn’t answer right away, as if pondering a secret she alone knows. “A little. I can’t believe this day is still happening. It slowly turned from a mediocre day to a horrible day to a wonderful day. Wonderful evening, really. Strange. I’m scared, but at the same time, I feel so alive.”
“I know the feeling.”
Pasha wonders if she can feel how fast she makes his heart beat when she’s pressed so close to him. He wonders if her lips taste as sweet and bitter as absinthe. He wonders how he would ever be able to leave and not see her every day. He wonders — 
“You don’t think he followed us, do you?” she asks.
“Don’t think so. Otherwise, he would’ve already caught up with us here.”
“I’m trying to weigh our options.”
This short ‘our’ makes Pasha’s heart beat even faster, makes him want to kiss her right then and there. But no — not when they’re drunk. He has to be clear-headed to remember every second of it.
“And?” he asks.
“I came up with two options so far. Tell someone what happened, like the police or pansion principal or even Naomi. They would know how to deal with him — but also, there might be complications because, in a way, we did steal the brooch.”
“Yeah. And the second?”
“You won’t like it.” She sighs and presses closer to him. “Give the brooch back to him.”
Give his mother’s brooch, the only item that’s truly his, by right, back to Ilya. So he will touch it with his fingers stained with vodka and pickles, or even sell it. Lose the slightest hint of a connection to his mother.
“Yeah, I don’t like it.”
Alina and Nina come back and plunge on their seats, panting and beaming.
“Don’t like what?” 
Sonya sits straight back, letting go of his hands, and Pasha tells the story of meeting his father, stealing the brooch, Ilya calling him and Sonya, and chasing them earlier that day. He doesn’t even waver before telling them everything. He doesn’t really know what it is to have friends and share and bond, but this, now feels pretty good.
“So we can either give him back the brooch or talk to the principal or the police,” Pasha finishes.
“Yeah, good luck with the police.” Alina leans against the back of her chair. “You’d just waste your time filling stupid forms.”
“Can you ask advice from Lev Aleksandrovich?” Nina asks. “I heard he’s a cool guy from people from pansion.”
“Yeah. If it happened a few months ago, I would’ve asked Lev for help without thinking twice. But now … As soon as Naomi Rosenberg appeared, he keeps pushing Igor as the best boy in pansion, and whenever Igor is around, it’s as if I don’t even exist. Lev would just use it against me. He’d tell Naomi I stole something right away, and I’ll lose the chance.”
“Well, yeah, it doesn’t surprise me,” Nina says.
“What do you mean?”
“You know, that he pushes Igor.”
Everyone stares at Nina.
“Oh, right, I guess you don’t know. Igor was the son of Lev’s best friend who recently died. He’s almost like his godfather. So I’m not surprised he wants him to have this chance to study somewhere in Canada.”
“So we definitely can’t tell Lev,” Sonya says. “Where did you hear it?”
“My mum’s at the parents' committee, and she tells us rumours all the time.” 
Pasha doesn’t hear the girls talking anymore. Everything fits together, all those times Lev was on Igor’s side, all those times he looked over Pasha. He never thought of Pasha as his son — of course not. It’s ridiculous. And he had someone he loved and cared for all this time. Someone like a son. Pasha is such an idiot to think he was anything more than yet another pansion kid to Lev.
Pasha clenches his jaw. No, he wasn’t an idiot. Hasn’t Lev known Pasha since he was little, too? Hasn’t he been there his whole life? And now, what, he just gave up on him in favour of a bully? The familiar, hated buzzing begins in his chest, and his leg begins trembling. He takes a few slows breaths and focuses on the memory of the maple tree. A calm and peaceful place without Lev, or Ilya, or Igor. Only Pasha and Sonya, and their book on their laps.
“You can always hide the brooch for now,” Alina says, bringing him to reality.
Pasha exchange glances with Sonya. She tilts her head, considering. 
“We can,” she says. “At least if Ilya comes looking for it, he wouldn’t find it.”
“So we hide it.” Pasha nods. 
“But I still say we tell someone about him. Perhaps pansion principal? Dina is fair, isn’t she?”
“Yeah. Fair. If she hears the story, she’s definitely giving the brooch back to him.”
“Well, then, we won’t tell her the whole story.” Sonya grins. 
Pasha’s heart flutters again as she says ‘we’. “I don’t even know why you needed me to teach you to be bad, Sonya.”
She laughs and before Pasha’s brain can catch up with what he’s doing, he rises to his feet and offers his hand to Sonya. 
“Okay, I know this moment will come sooner or later, so let’s get it over with. Let’s dance.”
She laughs again, tilting her head backwards, and takes his hand. They go to the dance floor with Alina and Nina, and in this moment, Pasha is free. He’s not an orphan who longs being needed; he’s not being chased by his own father. He’s only a guy dancing with a girl he’s crazy about, not caring about tomorrow. They dance away the fear, the regret, the disappointment, and it leaves their bodies together with sweat, evaporating from their skin. 
They’re panting and laughing, and when a slow melody comes, there’s no shyness or awkwardness as Pasha and Sonya wrap their arms around each other. She is only slightly shorter than he is, and he can see a faint, dreamy smile on her lips.
“This day gets crazier and crazier,” she whispers.
“While it’s still today,” he checks his watch — two minutes to midnight. “I wanted to tell you that you looked very beautiful this morning.” At least he can say it now, finally, with a little help from absinthe. “Actually, you look beautiful every day. Just … today especially.”
“Thanks.” She smiles and closes her eyes. “Make-up does that to a girl.”
Pasha wants to explain that it’s not what he meant, that he loved the way her hair was tied up not hiding her protruding ears, and the way the blue of her skirt reflected in her eyes. But he doesn’t know how to say it.
“My parents called,” she says. “I didn’t answer, but I sent them a text that I’m with Alina and I’m fine.” Then, her voice falls even lower, and a little furrow rests between her eyebrows. “I’ve been too harsh to them, Pasha.”
“But you told them the truth, didn’t you?” He catches a curl and twirls it between his fingers.
“Yes, but there are different ways to tell the truth. And I did it the worst way possible — I accused them of everything wrong with my life.”
“It’s okay,” Pasha says, though he’s in no way sure if it’s okay or not. “You can talk to them tomorrow, right?”
Sonya doesn’t answer at once. She tucks her face in the space between his shoulder and neck and wraps her arms tighter around him. “I don’t want tomorrow to come.”
Pasha checks his watch again — tomorrow has already come.
#
They dance the rest of the night away, casting off all control, all fears, all doubts. When they’re so tired, they can’t even sit anymore, they call a taxi and go to Alina’s place. Pasha sits in the front and watches Sonya’s reflection in the side-view mirror. She’s dozing off, resting her head on the window’s glass, then wakes up abruptly as the car passes a road bump, and begins to doze off again. He turns away after a few times he witnesses it — those moments feel too private.
By the time they get to Alina’s apartment, the rain is pouring. Alina opens the door with her key, pressing her pointer to her lips. They get rid of their shoes and tiptoe into Alina’s bedroom.
Everyone is too exhausted to talk. Alina and Sonya get the mattresses out, looking for spare sheets and shirts to sleep it. Nina, Pasha catches, is gazing around the room, transfixed. He recognises this feeling — he himself often wonders what Sonya’s room looks like. If it’s a representation of her same as this room is of Alina. 
Alina’s room is not big, about the size of his own room in pansion, but there’s an undeniable aura of identity inside. Posters of TV shows and photo collages cover the walls. A small bookshelf stands in the corner with what seems to be the entire collection or Ursula K. Le Guin and Isaac Asimov. So many knick-knacks lie scattered around the room, things Alina saw in shops and bought and claimed as her own. 
There’s no aura of identity in Pasha’s room. It’s nameless, empty, soon to be occupied by two other parentless children, when Pasha and Igor turn 18. There’s no sense in making the room his own because it never was his own.
Pasha goes to the bathroom and changes into one of Alina’s oversized T-shirts while the girls change in the bedroom. When he comes back, Alina is already in bed, Nina on the mattress beside her, both sleeping sound. Sonya sits on one of the mattresses on the farther side of the room, hugging her knees, her hair tied. She wears a T-shirt with Xena the Warrior Princess on it and tiny shorts that leave her legs completely bare. Pasha gulps, looks away, and tiptoes to his mattress, beside Sonya.
“Why aren’t you sleeping?” he whispers, nodding at Alina and Nina. One of them snorts in her sleep.
“Was waiting for you.”
Only now Pasha notices that she moved their mattresses close to each other. Thank goodness there are two sets of blankets — otherwise he wouldn’t be able to fall asleep. Sonya gets under her blanket, and he follows her example. They hold each other's gazes, as they did over the fire, as they did over the seder table, and, same as those times, he is hit by a fierce desire to kiss her. 
He only has to inch forward, just a little, she is so close, but each time he wants to, his lids grew heavy and he dozes off. Now, he thinks, before I fell asleep again, he thinks, but Sonya’s eyes are closed, and she wheezes softly. 
#
Something bursts through the darkness, through the sweet nothing. Something hits Pasha’s tired arm. Breathing — no, gasping. It gets louder and louder and wakes him up.
The room is dark, quiet, apart from the rain drumming against the window. Sonya gasps for air beside him, her eyes closed. The beads of sweat on her forehead are too big, too grotesque, and the skin of her bare legs almost shines in the darkness. Her blanket lies bundled at her feet, and she kicks it, again and again.
“Sonya, wake up,” Pasha whispers, touching her lightly. Her skin is wet and warm to the touch, almost burning him.
Another raspy gasp is her answer. Another kick. 
Pasha leans in towards her, panic rising in his chest. He shakes her shoulders. “Sonya!”
She waves her hands, hitting him, as if trying to swim.
“Wake up!” 
He grabs her shoulders and shakes her, maybe a little too rough, but she opens her eyes. She breathes in and out carefully, the softest sound under the heavy pounding of the rain.
“The dream?” he asks.
She nods and fixes her eyes on him. “Thanks for waking me,” she mouths.
Her whole body trembles, beads of sweat run from her forehead to her temples and down onto the pillow. The roots of her hair are wet, and Pasha moves the tangled locks away from her face. 
“Can I do anything for you?”
She is silent for a moment, breathing in and out slowly, her eyes never leaving his face. Then, she moves onto his mattress and covers them both with his blanket. 
“Just hold me.”
She turns her back to him, burning him with her skin, and he just holds her, as she asked. Her heartbeat throbs against her back, into his chest, unable to calm down. Everything hits him at once, like heavy drops of rain. He wanted Naomi’s offer because there’s a chance to have a better life there. But isn’t there a chance to have a better life here, too? A chance of having friends, a chance of building his own future, a chance of holding her close, even closer than now? How the hell is he supposed to choose one over the other?
Sonya’s heartbeat calms, but he can hear a soft sound of her eyelashes against the pillow when she blinks. He holds her tighter, presses one kiss against the side of her neck, then lies still, barely breathing, listening to the sound of her blinking until it stops, and she falls asleep. She’s so close — too close — and that greedy part of him wakes up again. He wants to melt into her, touch every millimetre of her body with his lips, make her heart beat faster again, her breathing faster again, her blood rush and her skin burn.
Still trying to shut these images out of his mind, he falls asleep.


Chapter Seventeen


The first thing Sonya notices when she wakes up is Pasha’s arm wrapped around her. He’s pressed close to her, and the warmth of his wheezing breaths touches the nape of her neck. The rain is tapping lazily against the window. Sonya lies still, eyes closed, relishing in the moment, hoping to remember it forever.
Yesterday is a blur. The seder, the music room, Mama’s tears, Papa’s disappointment. Running away, running together, dancing and being in Pasha’s arms. Seeing Alina so happy, so blissful.
And then drowning again. 
In that dream, more pronounced and real than any before, she drifted in the moment of losing air, of her lungs burning, of perpetual muteness. Her parents’ faces were there, their salty tears disappearing in the water. 
But something else was different this time. Pasha’s voice broke through the thickness and dense silence, waking her. Instead of the dark ceiling of her room, there was his face, crossed with fear. Instead of making a cocoon with the blanket around herself, there were Pasha’s arms. 
Nothing is going to be the same now — not Pasha, not her parents, not even Alina, and a pang hits Sonya in her chest at this thought. 
Whispers reach Sonya, then the sounds of Alina and Nina clambering out of their beds and getting on their feet. Someone leaves the room, and Pasha stirs at the sound of the door closing. His arm would slip away now, Sonya knows. It’s inevitable, and there’s nothing she can do about it. 
Pasha stirs again, and she feels a light touch of his fingers against her arm, from her wrist to her shoulder. Then, a caress on the back of her head, so light, she might not have felt it if she was still asleep. The next moment, his arm is gone.
Pasha sits up on the mattress.
“Morning,” Alina whispers.
“Morning,” Pasha calls back, his voice croaky. A long yawn follows. “Wow, it’s noon.”
“Yup. I told my parents you’re here. Mum’s making pancakes.”
“This is the best thing you can say to a person in the morning,” Pasha says. He raises himself clumsily and leaves the room. 
When the door is closed, Sonya opens her eyes and sits up. 
Alina sits on the mattress beside her. “You looked so cute!”
Sonya tries to reciprocate Alina’s beaming smile, the flashes of her dream still playing in her head. So many nights she and Alina spent in this room, raging on their teachers, describing their first kisses, planning their futures. In this very room, Alina first told Sonya she had a crush on a girl, and both didn’t know what to make of it at the time. To Sonya, it was a sanctuary, and having her nightmare here feels more than wrong.
Alina nudges her. “Did anything happen between — ”
There’s a knock on the door, and Alina’s mum sticks her head in the room.
“Morning, my beautiful girls. Breakfast’s ready. Hurry up, or Nina will eat everything without you. I met Pasha as well.” She looks behind her, then sticks her head back and lowers her voice. “What a sweet boy.”
She’s out again, and Alina and Sonya follow her to the kitchen. It’s not much bigger than the kitchen in Sonya’s apartment, only furnished in a modern way. A big plate of blini, big and flat pancakes, stands in the middle of the table. Nina and Pasha are already stuffing themselves with blini, folding round shapes into triangles and dipping them into smetana.
Nausea rises in Sonya’s stomach at the sight of food, but she makes herself smile at Pasha as their eyes meet over the table. Her Mama loves making blini. They have blini Sunday every week which they treat almost like a national holiday. This won't be the same either. 
Sonya pecks a little just to create an illusion of normality, catching Pasha’s glances from time to time. She wasn’t supposed to rely on him anymore, and yet she came to him after the fight with her parents. She wasn’t supposed to be waking up in his arms. She wasn’t supposed to have the nightmare at all, she has burned her fear, hasn’t she?
Not able to even pretend to eat anymore, Sonya slips into the bathroom, brushes her teeth, and splashes cold water over her face. 
Someone knocks on the door. “It’s Pasha.”
Sonya opens and turns her back to him, pretending to wash her hands. He looks at her through the mirror, and she gives him yet another trained smile. 
“Don’t do it,” he says softly.
“Do what?”
“You don’t have to pretend with me, remember?”
Sonya nods and lets her smile fall.
“Are you okay?” Pasha asks.
“Okay.” 
Funny, he wasn’t able to ask her questions even a month ago. She never thought they’d get here, but here they are. Just as he is about to leave.
“You had the dream again.”
“Yeah.” Sonya wipes her hands with a towel.
“Can’t imagine what you’re feeling. I don’t know what I’m feeling, either. But, I’m … ” He shifts his feet but doesn’t drop his gaze. “I just wanted you to know that, um, last night — waking up like this — what I’m trying to say — ”
Sonya can’t help but chuckle. “I know what you’re trying to say.”
“I’m not sure even I know what I’m trying to say.”
Sonya turns to face him. “You’re trying to say that we’ve become very close during this month, and yesterday evening and night especially. But it’s not enough. You have a chance to study in Canada. And that would mean the end for us, even though nothing has begun. And though it’s,” she pauses and lets out a breath, “heartbreaking, it’s the right thing to do.”
Pasha holds her gaze. “Yeah. That does sum it up, I guess. But, um … perhaps it isn’t the right thing to do?”
Sonya’s heart does a somersault, but there’s something wrong in Pasha’s tone. “Is that a statement or a question?”
“I'm not sure.”
“You can’t stay here because of me, Pasha,” she says, hating the words. “We’re graduating soon, and you haven’t applied to any university, and going with Naomi would give you so many opportunities that you won’t have if you stay.” 
She waits for him to contradict her, to say there are opportunities here as well, or he has a back-up plan, or at least say anything. Anything, even the most bizarre suggestion, like ‘let’s drop everything and run away together’. They do it in books all the time.
But he only nods, because of course she is right. He seems to want to move towards her, but instead he nods again and leaves the bathroom. 
Stinging tears are gathering at her eyes, so she splashes her face with cold water again and again and takes long, deep breaths until she is calm. She wipes her face with a towel and glances in the mirror before going out of the bathroom. Her face is blotchy; her eyes are red because of staying up all night and unshed tears.
Sonya walks into the living room. Alina and Nina are there with Alina’s parents, laughing about something. Pasha sits awkwardly on the edge of the sofa. As soon as Alina’s mum catches Sonya’s eyes, she beckons to her and goes to the kitchen. Sonya follows her.
“Can we talk, dear?” Alina’s mum asks her. 
Sonya nods, and they sit in front of each other, the remains of the breakfast still on the table between them. Even in her home clothes, Alina’s mum is like from a movie. Her hair is tied in a messy bun that Sonya has only seen on her peers, never older women. Mama would never allow herself to have her hair in a mess, least of all on purpose.
“Sonechka, your parents called us,” Alina’s mum says. “They are so worried.”
Sonya nods again, battling a gulp in her throat.
“Do you want to tell me what happened? Why you ran away?”
Sonya shifts on her seat. Sugar granules cover the table, and she pushes them into a pile with her finger. “They want me to turn religious with them. And I don’t want to. They think they know better just because they’re my parents.” Sonya thought all her frustration and anger slipped out of her yesterday, but a small unpleasant feeling is still brewing inside her. “They’re suffocating me. I mean — you don’t control Alina, you let her be whoever she wants to be. You’re doing it the right way.”
Alina’s mum gives her a bitter chuckle. “I’m afraid there is no right way, Sonya. You might think we’ve nailed this parenting thing, but we worry about Alina every day. It’s not like there’s a parent manual out there.” She crosses her legs, leaning her elbow against the table. “We’re all just trying our hardest, having no clue if we’re any good at it.”
“Yeah, but … they don’t let me breathe. Why can’t they see that?”
“My guess is that they’re afraid of letting you go, now that you’ve found your own feet. Afraid you won’t need them anymore.”
“Afraid to lose the connection,” Sonya mutters, rubbing her thumb and forefinger together, sprinkling the sugar onto the pile. But she's afraid of it as well. It's been a long time since she and Anya hung out, and Sonya hasn’t been participating in all those seminars her parents went to. Surely there’s a way to follow different paths and not lose the connection?
“You should talk to them,” Alina’s mum says. “You took your break, but now you have to go home and talk it all out.”
Sonya nods. “You're right. Thank you. Really.”
Alina’s mum smiles. When she leaves the kitchen, Sonya takes her phone out, her palms sweating, and calls Mama. The beeps are long and deafeningly loud.
“Sonya! Oh, thank heavens.”
“Mama, I’m sorry for shouting at you. And Papa.”
“Sonya, you have to come home.” Mama doesn’t order her — she pleads, and this sounds almost worse.
“I will. I promise.”
“Now.” Papa’s voice. “You’re coming home now, Sonya.” His voice, too, is strained. “We can pick you up — ”
“No, I’ll go myself. I need to pack and stuff. I’ll be home in a few hours.”
“You pack and come right home, okay?”
“Okay.”
She hangs up the phone, her palms so sweaty she nearly drops it. Pasha stands in the doorway, watching her.
“I need to go home, and talk to them,” she says. “I mean, really talk to them.”
“I figured. I need to go too. Talk to the principal and everything.”
The chasm between them is impossible to bear, as if someone struck a wrong chord on her favourite melody. Then a thought hits her. If Pasha leaves, her parents would never know the real him. They’d keep thinking she was acting out with some dangerous, manipulative guy.
She licks her lips before speaking. “Pasha? Would you … would you mind going to my parents with me first?”
He raises his brows.
“I want them to meet you. To know you as my friend. And I need them to trust me, that I can make the right choices.” 
“Of course. Only if you don’t mind taking a detour before that.”
Pasha takes a brooch from his pocket. Sonya nods. 
#
They say goodbye to Nina, Alina, and her parents, thanking them for everything, and leave the apartment. The rain simmers down, and the grey sky hangs low, pressing like a headache. Sonya’s skin crawls each time the wind blows — the spell of warm weather is over.
They go into the park, towards their maple tree, and Sonya knows Pasha’s plan although they didn’t discuss where they would hide the brooch. The park is empty in this cold weather; the grass is still wet from the rain. 
Pasha kneels at the tree and digs into the ground, making a hole. Sonya joins him, afraid at first to get her hands dirty, to have soil under her nails, to let her parents see her like that. Then, she digs her hand deeper, and there’s no turning back now. The soil is wet and yielding. Sonya adds another hand without fear this time. 
The raw smell of wet soil fills her with memories of planting flowers with Mama every spring. She throws the soil aside, digs back in, meeting Pasha’s fingers in the ground. Throws more soil aside, making the pile bigger and bigger. Though they can stop now — the brooch is small enough to fit in the hole — they keep digging. The desire to hide it so no one can find it overwhelms Sonya. A secret, hidden deep beneath the ground, that belongs only to them and their tree.
They stop when the hole is up to their elbows. Sonya tears a page from her notebook and wraps it around the brooch, careful not to smudge soil all over it. Pasha takes it and places the brooch carefully to the bottom. They look at each other over the hole, over their secret. 
“Pasha? I need to tell you this. I hate that your father doesn’t care about you, I hate that I'm so weak I couldn’t tell my parents what I really wanted. But I also love all of it. Because otherwise none of it would’ve happened. It feels like the biggest downfall my life. But it’s a sweet kind of downfall. And I know I shouldn’t love it, but I do.”
Pasha looks at her, his lips slightly parted. “I don’t think you’re weak,” he says. “It’s incredible how you do it.”
“Do what?”
“Say stuff. Say what you’re thinking. Being so honest. I can’t do it. I’m trying to — there’s so much I want to tell you — but I end up saying nothing instead.”
“You don’t have to say — ”
“But I want to. I want you to know.” A beat of silence, only the wind rustles the leaves above them. “I can show you, instead.”
A question is about to escape her lips, but there’s no time because he leans towards her and kisses her. She closes her eyes, and everything ceases to exist apart from his lips on hers. Chapped after the long winter, warm, and long-anticipated. The moment lasts too short, he pulls away, but Sonya surges forward, demanding his lips back. He holds her closer, responding to the kiss, and she squeezes his shoulders and buries her hand in his hair, not caring that her hands are all grimy and wet.
The world comes back after they pull apart. Their foreheads touch, their hands meet in the middle, over the brooch. She wants to scream, don’t leave! But Pasha is kissing her again, small, chaste kisses on the lips, cheek, temple, hair.
“I’ll try to learn,” he says.
A gulp appears in her throat, and she wants to shout that there’s no time to learn, that everything ends right at the beginning. But that won’t change anything, anyway. There is a smudge of soil on his neck and ears where she touched him and she tries to clean it, but her hands are so dirty that it doesn’t change anything either.
They put the dug up soil back where it belongs, covering their secret and rise from the ground. Not even a second passes when they’re kissing again. As if Pasha understands as well that there’s no use in waiting, so he kisses her in a way that makes her knees weak. 
“We need to go,” Sonya whispers as Pasha pecks her ear, her neck, sending shivers all over her body. 
He stops, nods, and Sonya tucks her head in the space between his neck and shoulder, a place that’s become her favourite in the past few weeks. How many times will she be able to do it before he leaves? Or is it the last time?
They stand under the tree for a moment, breathing, shivering in the cold, holding each other close. Then, after giving one last fleeting look to their secret, they rush towards the metro. 


Chapter Eighteen


The rain has stopped when Sonya and Pasha rush out of the metro and into the street. He glances at their clasped hands, covered in mud — it’s a reminder to him. The brooch is out of reach. Even though he won’t be able to hold it and see its amber light glisten, at least Ilya won’t possess it either. It’s under the ground, buried deep — just like his mother. Both are safe, resting, undisturbed.
Sonya squeezes his hand as they come closer to the apartment building, and Pasha begins to sweat, anticipating a meeting with her parents. He knows it’s not a ‘meet my boyfriend’ or a ‘meet my friend’ situation. Whatever they are, this won’t last. However strong the temptation to stay is, Pasha will go away if he gets the chance. But this meeting is important for Sonya, he knows. 
Sonya enters the door code. They climb the stairs in unison. She opens the apartment door with her key and, together, they enter.
Pasha barely has a chance to take in the apartment — bigger and messier than he imagined — when two people rush into the corridor, and the screaming starts.
“Sonya! Where have you been?” her father roars. Tall, clean-shaven, face red.
“What — Sonya, you’re covered in dirt!” Her mother is on the verge of crying. Pale, same blue eyes. “Have you seen yourself in the mirror? What happened?”
Sonya keeps a tight hold of Pasha’s hand, and he responds with a squeeze. “Nothing, we just — ”
“There’ll be no more ’we’!” Mother grabs Sonya by the elbow and pulls her away. "What did he do to you?"
“He didn’t do anything! Why do you always blame him — ”
“So he’s not getting into fights all the time?” Her father points straight at Pasha. Straight at his black-eye. “He’s not stealing books from the school library or brooches from his father, huh?”
Pasha tenses. Sonya doesn’t know about the stolen books.
“We wanted to believe you, Sonya,” her mother says. “That you were spending your time with a nice boy. But they told us everything.”
“They — who are ‘they’?” Sonya says.
Two more people enter the corridor from the living room, and Pasha has difficulty breathing. 
Lev and Ilya are here.
He tries to wrap his mind around it. He fails. It’s a surreal dream, it can’t happen. Five people look at him, five people Pasha would never want to see in one room together. His first impulse is to get to Sonya and flee, to close the door behind them and disappear together, but his feet are rooted to the ground.
“Pavel,” Lev makes a step towards him. “We were worried.”
Pasha half expects Lev to hug him, to show at least some kind of sympathy. To tell Sonya’s parents he’s not a bad person, that all of it is just a silly misunderstanding… But he knows better than to hope.
“You didn’t come to pansion last night, without telling anything to anyone.” Lev is calm, his face unreadable. Pasha wonders if he really was worried. Maybe he was relieved. One problem less on his hands. “You know it’s against the rules. We’re responsible for you. And then your father came to us. He said you and Sonya stole the brooch from him. Is that true?”
“It’s not what it sounds like,” Pasha says, his voice breaking.
“Bullshit — ” Ilya jumps in, but Lev raises his hand, and he stops, as if he is also just an orphan boy from pansion.
“Please, Ilya Aleksandrovich, no swearing. Pavel?”
There’s no point in lying. After he admits it, Ilya will probably press charges against him. This will be the end. Naomi would never even consider giving him a chance. He lost.
Sonya’s parents are shielding her, but Pasha catches her blue eyes from the other side of the hall. He promised he would learn to tell her how he feels. Tell her how grateful he is. But for now, he can show. He takes a deep breath.
“It’s true. Only I did it alone. Sonya was with me that day, but she didn’t know I stole the brooch.”
“Wait, no!” Sonya pushes through the parent-shield, but they keep her in place. “It was my idea. We did it together!”
“Sonya, it’s okay.” Pasha tries to tell her it really is okay through the look. She has to understand. “You don’t have to cover for me.”
“No!”
Of course Lev ignores Sonya’s words — all he needed was a confession from Pasha. Having him steal the brooch alone is probably even better for Lev.
“We must let the principal know, as well as pansion director,” he says. 
And Naomi Rosenberg, Pasha can almost hear Lev’s thoughts. He doesn’t even have to say it. 
“Where is it now?” Ilya says. He’s not enraged as Pasha expected. Instead, his voice is faint, quelled. “The brooch?”
“The park near the school,” Pasha says. “Buried.”
Lev frowns. “Buried? Wh — never mind. Let’s drive.”
As he says his apologies and goodbyes to Sonya’s parents, Sonya shouts something, defiant and furious, something Pasha’s mind can’t compile into a logical sentence. He gives her a final look and a small nod, trying to convey his adoration and gratitude in that nod. When he draws his head into his shoulders and leaves the apartment, Sonya is still shouting.
Outside, the smell of beat-down dust and fresh air revives him, sharpens his senses. The thought of giving the brooch back to Ilya is almost unbearable, but there can’t be any more lies. At least Sonya will be spared all this.
Pasha follows Lev and Ilya in the car, sits in the backseat and glances at the second-floor window. It’s empty now, but Pasha can almost see Sonya beaming down at him, and a paper aeroplane flying down, into his hands.


Chapter Nineteen


“Pasha, wait!” Sonya screams, but he’s already out, his head bent down, his shoulders raised, like a turtle that wants to go back in its shell. 
Papa closes the door, and the silence is palpable. 
“I never thought you could disappoint us this way, Sonya,” Mama whispers.
“It’s that bastard’s influence,” Papa spits.
“What did he turn you into? Smoking, drinking… And look at your hands.” Mama reaches to Sonya, but she takes a step back.
“Can you forget about him for a second?” Sonya’s voice shakes. “It’s not his influence, not his ideas, not his anything. It was all me. I asked him to bring me cigarettes. I suggested we steal the brooch. I asked him to stay up all night. You want to find the villain of the story? That would be me.”
She doesn’t wait for them to respond and stomps to her bedroom. Her bed is not made, just as she left it. She sits on the edge, scraping the dirt from under her nails, letting it fall on the floor. They should’ve been more sensible and gone straight to pansion director, instead of staying up all night. Now it’s too late.
A nasty little thought tries to break on the surface from the depths of her subconscious, but Sonya pushes it away. Her body feels leaden, as if she hasn’t been sleeping in weeks. How tempting it is to close her eyes, rest her head on a pillow and fall asleep… Sonya puts her elbows on her knees and supports her heavy head. She closes her eyes for just a second. The nasty little thought breaks through.
Pasha won’t go away. Naomi will never consider him after this. Pasha will stay, here, with her. Isn’t it a good thing?
“No.” Sonya sits straight and shakes her head. It was her idea to steal the brooch. She can’t let Pasha lose his chance because of her. She will tell Naomi that was all her doing, and Pasha didn’t know about the stealing. She will take all the blame, same as he just did. 
But the apartment door is closed, and a three-headed dog might as well be guarding it — there’s no way of sneaking out. Sonya opens her drawer. Only last week a pile of her drowning pictures filled it to the brim. Now, a notebook lies there with all the notes Pasha wrote her. Maybe she doesn’t have to sneak out. Maybe it’s time for her to tell her parents the truth. All of it.
She grabs the notes and treads to the living room. Mama and Papa discuss something in quiet voices while the TV drones on.
“We need to talk,” Sonya takes the remote and puts the TV on mute.
Anya’s steps come from the kitchen. Her eyes are running around, not knowing where to land.
“Good, you’re here too,” Sonya says. “Sit. Please.”
Anya clambers into an armchair and hugs her knees. All three stare at her.
“First of all, I’m glad how this desire to turn religious glued you together, but I can’t join you in this. I’m sorry. I don’t want to go to the synagogue to prove my belief. Or wear long skirts. Or saying prayers. It’s not for me, and I’m sorry for letting you down, but, for once, I want to be honest.”
Papa and Mama shake their heads, disappointment filling their every gesture.
“The second thing I wanted to tell you… ” Sonya takes a breath. “My nightmares. I never told you about them. Since I was little, I’ve been having dreams where I was drowning. And they are horribly, horribly real. Each night, I thought I was dying.”
Mama puts her hands over her mouth. “Sonya, why haven't you ever told — ”
“I didn’t want you to worry about me. But what I’m saying is that I stopped having them for a while. Right when Pasha and I made a pact — I wanted to explore all those things I wouldn’t be able to explore after we became religious. It’s silly, I know now, it’s not like you can’t smoke or drink when you’re a religious person. But at the time, it felt like this. Like my life and all the options will be taken away from me. Look.” She hands them Pasha’s notes.
“What is — ”
“Just read it.”
They read, or rather, skim, because they’re done with the notes in a fairly short time. Anya takes longer to go through them.
“He could’ve written anything to make you like him,” Mama says. 
“We’ve seen enough of his father — ” Papa begins.
“Why do you judge him based on his father? You talk about religion, but you’re still being judgemental, assuming the worst of people.” 
Papa lets out an exasperated sigh. “Sonya, we’re your parents, and we know better. We look out for you.”
“Papa, didn’t your parents forbid you to marry Mama because she was Jewish? Did they know better as well?”
Papa opens his mouth, then closes.
“Exactly. And you married her anyway. You chose your own path despite them, and that led to you not talking to them ever again. I won’t let it happen to us. I know you’re afraid of losing me, but you don’t have to worry. I’ll always be your daughter. You have to let me live my own life, make my own choices.”
“Sonya, you don’t even know what you want to do with your life,” Mama says.
“I do. That’s the third thing. I want to apply to Gnessinka and Tchaikovsky Academy.”
“Oh, Sonya, haven’t we discussed it?” Mama shakes her head. “It’s such an unstable life.”
“I’m willing to risk it. I’ve done all the research, and I’ve applied for one of the biggest competitions in Russia. I haven’t heard back from them, but — ”
“Wait.” Anya stands up, Pasha’s notes still in her hands. “You have. Something came in the post. I didn’t look closely, but I think…”
Without finishing the sentence, Anya is out of the living room, and then before anybody could even exchange a glance, she’s back again. Panting, she hands Sonya a big envelope.
Sonya’s hands are shaking so much, she drops it as she tries to open it. Anya picks it up.
“You open it,” Sonya whispers.
Anya gulps, then nods. The sound of tearing paper fills the living room.
“You’re shortlisted,” Anya says, her throat dry. “You’re in top five. There’ll be an award ceremony where the top five will perform, and they’ll announce the winners.”
There’s a pause, hovering in the living room, so thick, Sonya is afraid to gulp. Then, Anya squeals, jumps on the spot, and gives Sonya a hug.
“Congratulations!” she says in her ear and pecks her cheek. 
“Thanks,” Sonya mumbles, a cry of shock and joy stuck somewhere in her throat. Still trying to process the information, she turns to her parents. 
They are watching her and Anya silently, as if they’re one of their TV shows.
“We don’t have to do it all together, you know,” Anya says. “Religion is not about eating kosher food or lighting candles. It’s about love and forgiveness and having a light in your heart.”
The silence is so loud, it buzzes. Mama and Papa share a long glance, like they’re talking to each other with their minds. Finally, Mama lets out a deep sigh, comes up to Sonya and Anya, and gives them a tight embrace. “I’m really, really proud of you, girls. It takes courage to speak your heart out. Of course we understand if you don’t want to do it with us, Sonya.”
Sonya squishes Mama back, still shuddering. Papa looks at them, his elbows on his knees.
“I’ll need to look into this competition. Who runs it, if it’s a scam or not.”
“Of course,” Sonya whispers.
“See what career opportunities the Conservatories offer.” He seems to battle an urge to scoff.
“Sure.”
“And I’ll have a long conversation with this boy if you want to keep seeing him.”
“You might not need to. If I can help him now, Naomi Rosenberg might still give him a chance, and he’ll go to Canada.”
Mama frowns. “I’m not sure we follow.”
“It’s a long story. But, please, can you let me go?”
“Now?” Papa asks.
“Now.”
“Go,” Mama says.
Sonya hesitates for a splitting second as Papa is still unsure, his brow creased with a frown. Finally, he gives her a curt nod, and she rushes into the corridor, putting on her shoes and running out of the house.
Anya calls from the living room, “Good luck!”
“Thank you! I love you!” Sonya shouts before closing the door.


Chapter Twenty


The never-ending Moscow traffic tortures Pasha. Each beeping horn, each millimetre they move, and the strangling silence in the car make him nauseous. Lev opens the window, letting in the fumes and ugly noises that no amount of rain could beat down.
Finally, a glimpse of the school and the park sends a jolt of relief through Pasha’s body until he realises why they’re here. He gets out of the car and walks through the deserted park, Lev and Ilya in tow. None of it feels right. Not leading them to his and Sonya's tree of life, their shelter, that hid them from hot sun and long rains. Not digging up the brooch and giving it back to Ilya. Not losing the connection to his mother forever. 
And, of course, it’s getting worse.
Naomi goes down the school steps and spots them at once — the street is nearly empty otherwise. There’s a tiny hope she’d go past them, but she waves and walks towards them. Pasha’s heart sinks. He’ll have to admit everything to Naomi and lose her respect.
Though his mind is racing, he can’t think of anything to get out of the situation. His heart sinking even lower, he remembers he doesn’t have his kippah on his head. After the Seder, he went to the library without it and didn’t have time to get to pansion. And all this in addition to his black-eye and grimy hands.
Naomi comes up to them, smiling, and asks what has happened. Lev talks in fluent English so Pasha doesn’t catch most of it. Not that he needs to — Naomi’s fading smile tells him everything.
Pasha tries hard to find words, his mind fogged by nerves and fear. “I take — er — my mum’s — thing. Not steal.” He gesticulates frantically, and a frown creases Naomi’s face. “It was my mum’s. Not his — ”
“Where is it?” Ilya cuts him short. 
Again, his voice takes Pasha by surprise. It almost trembles, the desperation now unmistakable. Pasha points at the spot where the ground is still fresh. He feels Naomi’s gaze on him but doesn’t dare to meet it. He kneels beside the tree and digs up the earth again.
When he's nearly there, he pushes his hand through the wet soil. His fingers bump into something hard and clutch it. He pulls it out and hands it to Ilya without unwrapping — he doesn’t want to tarnish the brooch.
Ilya unwraps it, tosses the paper aside, then blows bits of soil from the brooch, caressing it with his calloused fingers. The bright amber stone is glittering in the light of the setting sun. The side of the brooch is scuffed — the scratch is barely noticeable, but it’s there. Flawed beauty.
“Just take it and leave,” Pasha says, looking at the brooch, not Ilya. Hoping to get one last glimpse at it and erase the memory of his father's hands clutching it forever. “I don’t want to see you ever again.”
“It was me!” a voice calls from the distance. “I did it!”
Pasha’s heart leaps up somewhere in his throat at the sight of Sonya rushing towards them, her hair a mess atop her head, face red. She nearly slips on the wet grass, then straightens herself and keeps on running. When she reaches them, she turns to Naomi, panting.
“I stole the brooch. Pasha didn’t know I did it. He’s not to blame.”
“No, stop — ” Pasha begins.
“It’s true,” Sonya cuts him short. “Honestly, I did it alone.”
“No, you didn’t!”
“Quiet, both of you,” Lev barks, and Pasha and Sonya both close their mouths. Even now, Pasha can’t disobey him. “It’s fairly obvious you both are guilty. Both of you will have to deal with consequences.”
“I won't press charges,” Ilya says and throws a glance at Pasha. “You wanted something of your mother’s. I understand.”
Pasha tries to speak, but everything comes up in gibberish.
“The principal and pansion director will still be notified,” Lev interrupts him. 
He says something to Naomi in English, but Pasha can no longer concentrate. He stares at Ilya who is clasping the brooch almost desperately. From out of nowhere, he remembers his mother’s grave, tidy and neat, and fresh bluebells in a half-cut bottle.
No, it’s no use pretending his father is a good person. Pasha tried to see the goodness in him once and failed. He won’t go through this disappointment again. 
Ilya nods at them and walks away, wet grass squeaking under his soles.
“Pasha,” Sonya whispers, clutching his sleeve. “Talk to him.”
“No. I tried once. He’s a bad person.”
“He’s not supposed to be good or bad. No one is. Our parents are people too. They’re not perfect. Give him a chance.”
Pasha shakes his head.
“Won’t you stop thinking you’re not important enough?” Sonya tugs at his sleeve. “You are important. And it’s worth fighting for this connection. Trust me.”
Pasha wavers, watching Ilya’s stooping figure. His words echo in Pasha’s mind — You wanted something of your mother’s. I understand. — overshadowed by Ilya’s rage at the library.
Sonya lets go of his sleeve and makes a few steps towards Ilya who hasn’t gone too far.
“Excuse me, Ilya — er — Aleksandrovich?”
Ilya halts, then turns around.
“Why did you want the brooch so bad? You’re not going to sell it, are you?”
Ilya moves back towards them, step by step.
“No. Just — wanted to have it as a memory.”
Pasha makes a step towards him. “Of — of mum?”
Ilya nods, carefully avoiding Pasha’s eyes.
“Did you — um — ” Pasha gulps, trying to come up with words. “Sonya and I went to the cemetery. And, well, the grave was neat, and there were fresh flowers… and I wondered … ” Pasha falters, waiting for Ilya to snap as he did last time, but he doesn’t. “Have you been taking care of it?”
“Of course. I loved your mother,” he says, still not looking at Pasha. “But it doesn’t change that I’m responsible for her death.”
A cold wind blows over them, almost knocking Pasha off his feet, sending shivers through his body, adding to the blow of Ilya’s words.
“You — you what?”
“I couldn’t keep her safe. She had fits of bad mood, you see.”
“Bad mood?” Sonya asks. “What do you mean?”
“There were days when she couldn’t get off the bed. Lost interest in everything. They stretched for a while, then she got better again. Only the bad days always came back.”
Sonya gasps. “She had depression.”
“I don’t know what it was. After giving birth, she needed help more than usual, but I didn’t know how to cope with it. And then … she didn’t even leave a note. I might’ve helped her. No — I should’ve helped her.”
 Pasha is not sure if he wants to punch this man or embrace him. 
“I’m sorry for that day, Pasha. Alcohol does that to me.”
Pasha tries to say something, but words don’t come. He remembers meeting Ilya who was sort of nice — before he started drinking.
Ilya sneaks a glance at Pasha, then keeps staring at some spot on the ground. “I didn’t expect to see you. I wanted to call you, you know, all these years. Only I never did. So when you showed up, I was so nervous — happy, but nervous — I needed something to help me relax. I guess it didn’t really work.”
“No, it didn’t.” Pasha finally finds his voice. “You could’ve stopped drinking, then. Easy,” Pasha says.
Ilya snorts. “It’s not as easy. You don’t know — and I’m glad you don’t — what influence it can have over you. It consumes you. And soon enough, you can't exist without it. Again, I’m sorry.”
Before Pasha can do or say anything else, Ilya nods to him, turns around and walks away. One, two, three quick steps, and he’s almost gone. Rage or tears — maybe both — bubble inside Pasha, ready to burst out. Before he knows it, he rushes after Ilya.
“Wait!”
He catches up with him, a man almost a full head taller whose long thin arms hang around him lifelessly. 
“I wanted to apologise as well. Not for stealing the brooch. You acted like a jerk and — never mind. For faking that stomachache. You seemed pretty freaked out by it. Sorry I scared you.”
Ilya’s lips twitch a little as he sneaks another glimpse at Pasha. “I freaked out all right.”
“Um — can we maybe — you know — keep in touch?”
Finally, Ilya looks straight at him. He doesn’t smile; doesn’t roll his eyes. Could it be that the way he himself processes information is something he inherited from his father?
“There’s nothing I'd like more, Pasha. But I don’t want you to get meddled in my messy life. Like I said, alcohol has control over me. I’m better left alone.”
“You realise it’s a problem, don’t you? All the alcohol?”
Ilya turns the brooch over in his hands. “I suppose. But that's how it’s always been.”
Pasha remembers something Sonya had told him. “It’s a problem, and you need to work on it. There are ways to battle it. You’re not the only one who deals with it.”
“And you shouldn't have this burden over your shoulders. All the more reasons for you to stay away.”
“No. All the more reasons to have someone look after you.”
There’s a long pause, and then, without a warning, Ilya grips Pasha into a bear hug. A first real hug from a parent — something Pasha was sure to never experience. He pats Ilya’s back.
“You’re a better man than I am, Pasha.”
Pasha wonders if Ilya would even give him the brooch, but if he does, Pasha won't take it. He knows now that his father needs it more.


Chapter Twenty-One


Sonya is on the verge of crying or laughing — she's not sure — as she watches Pasha embracing his father. They still have seventeen years of neglect to work through, but it's a start. They pull away, begin to talk, both not knowing what to do with their arms, both awkward around each other. The way Ilya scratches his ear and tilts his head while listening reminds her of Pasha. Cold wind keeps blowing, gaining strength and rustling maple tree leaves.
“It’s wonderful when two people come together, despite all differences,” Naomi says.
Sonya turns to her, almost surprised to see her there. Like a light has been switched in her brain, she remembers what she came here to do.
“Naomi,” Sonya says in English, “you shouldn’t judge Pasha on this incident. I stole the brooch without telling him — ”
Lev’s exasperated sigh cuts her short. “Sonya, it’s time to stop lying, don’t you think?” His voice is calmer than sea on a still day, and Sonya fully understands what Pasha meant by Lev’s ability to make you listen and comply.
“Okay,” she says sheepishly. “We did it together. But only because this brooch belonged to his mother, and at the time he felt it was his.”
“Let’s just be glad his father is not pressing charges,” Lev says, then switches all his focus to Naomi. “Naomi, I wanted to discuss with you another boy in our pansion, Igor. He is very interested in religion and this life.”
Naomi nods. “He seems so, but at times I wonder how genuine he is.”
“What do you mean?”
“He acts very nice around me and says all the right things. But it feels like his words are someone else’s.”
Lev tries to speak but stumbles over his words. Sonya takes her chance.
“But Pasha wanted it since forever, since 3rd grade! He had this geography book, and we used to look through it and daydream about Canada.”
“Yes, I saw this book,” Naomi says.
“And he’s — well, yes, he made some mistakes, but who didn’t? And he did admit them. He even tried to take all the blame.”
“Trust me,” Lev says, “Pasha, Igor and other boys from pansion — I know them. I know who deserves this chance. And it’s Igor.”
Naomi opens her mouth — to agree? — but Sonya interrupts her.
“You only say it because you had a deal with someone or … promised someone ... or something like that!”
Lev’s eyebrows shoot up. “Excuse me?”
“I don’t remember the details, but you’ve been making excuses for Igor since he appeared. And you’ve been on his side this whole time.”
“I might be biassed, but I also know Pasha doesn’t need it — ”
“He does!”
“He doesn’t need it as much as Igor, okay?” Lev hisses as if revealing somebody’s secret. 
“What?”
“You said yourself — Pasha admitted his mistake. He’s learning. Growing. He can make it on his own, while Igor — well — he needs guidance and help. Maybe this chance is exactly what he needs to stay on the right track.”
“I’m sorry,” Naomi intrudes, “but this feels like a game of tug-of-war with my decision in the middle. What we offer is not a shortcut through life. It’s not like we take delinquents and turn them into rabbis. We give a chance to submerge into religious environment to those who want it. Belief is an integral part.”
Sonya gulps. It sounds a lot like what Pasha’s been hoping to get from this opportunity. Not religion — just a shortcut.
Naomi goes on. “My husband and I already made this decision a while ago. We are giving this chance to Pasha. He seems genuinely interested in this opportunity, and I feel we’ve connected.”
Sonya bites her tongue. Should she tell Naomi she misread Pasha? Wouldn't it be a right thing to do? But then, it's what they’ve been working towards. Their end-goal.
Sonya glances at Pasha who is hugging his father again. Not knowing yet that he won. Not knowing that he'll leave her. Of course, they never had much time together. He was always going to leave. And yet, the reality of it hits her like a thousand punches in her stomach.
Pasha comes back to them, and Sonya can't even see his features properly because her vision is blurry. She reaches for him and wraps her arms around him. His smell — fresh mown grass and spring buds coming alive and warm breeze touching your skin. She has to take in as much as she can.
Pasha hugs her back. “I know, I can’t believe I made up with my dad. Thanks for pushing me. Again.”
His voice. A low murmur of a stream, resonating in her bones. She has to remember it well.
“You did it,” Sonya says and lets her tears roll and her shoulders shake under the weight of their inevitable goodbye. “You did it, Pasha.”
“Did what? Why are you — ”
He stops. It won’t take him long to figure it out. Naomi’s smile and Lev’s disappointment must be fairly obvious. As she thought, a beat passes, and Pasha’s hold tightens around her, and she wishes he wouldn’t be able to let go. She clasps him so tight, no one would be able to break them apart.
Yet, Pasha lets go. She clings to him for a moment longer, then loosens her grip as well.
He takes a breath and turns to Naomi. “Thank you for — um — giving me the chance. But I’ll have to say no.”




Chapter Twenty-Two


Everyone gapes at Pasha, and Sonya utters a little shriek.
“I’m sorry,” he repeats. He steals a glance at Sonya, her face wet and puffy. “I can’t.” 
“Pasha,” Sonya whispers, tugging him aside. “What are you doing? Are out of your mind? You won. You can’t give up now.”
“I also can’t leave now, don’t you see?”
“It’s — it’s not because of — ” She stares at him, afraid to continue. “It’s not because of me, right? Because if it is, I won’t let you do it! I’ll — I’ll break off all contact with you until you leave! I’ll ignore you till you’re on Canadian soil — ”
Pasha chuckles, raising his arms. “Whoa, hold on. It’s not you. Well — not just you. It’s my father. We talked, and … I don’t even know how to explain. I never thought I’d have a real parent, you know? And there he was. Not a perfect dad I dreamed of. More like a confused, messed up guy. Still, he’s my dad. And he promised to tell stories about my mum and their life, show me pictures. We need each other.”
Pasha focuses on Lev. He stands quietly on the background, watching them, similar to a maple tree itself. Pasha comes up to him, insecure even now.
“I guess Igor can take this opportunity. Congratulations, since you were so eager for him to succeed.”
“I don’t suppose he will. Naomi was quite clear about that.”
Lev’s perpetual calmness, especially at this moment, makes Pasha’s fists clench.
“You don't say,” he spits. “You know you picked the bully to support, right? Thanks for that, by the way. Thanks for betraying me.”
Even as the words come out, they surprise Pasha. He stuffed his anger so deep down, he wasn’t sure he could reach it and pull it to the surface.
“I'm aware he's a bully, Pasha. It's exactly why I did it,” Lev says. “I wish you could see that.”
“See what?”
“Igor needs guidance more than you, more than anyone else.”
“And it has nothing to do with the fact that he’s your friends’ son?”
“How do you know that?” Lev waves his hands at him and Sonya, finally a hint of confusion in his voice. 
“Does it matter? You didn’t answer my question.”
Lev looks at Pasha, unblinking, then nods. “Perhaps. Yes. I didn’t think it felt as a betrayal to you.”
“Well, it did! You were — you were like a father to me, okay? And then Igor appears, and you stop caring about me! I needed you! Stuff has been happening, and you weren't there!” Pasha screams, then a soft hand touches his arm, sending a wave of serenity through his tense body. Take a deep breath, he remembers Sonya’s words. He does.
“I apologise for that, Pasha,” Lev says, not breaking eye contact, and his words soothe Pasha maybe even more than a deep breath and Sonya’s touch. “Sometimes I forget most of you lack parental figures. I underestimate my influence over you.”
“Well, don't.” Pasha's face must be wild red now, and he avoids Lev’s stare.
“I hope you know you mean a lot to me too — all of you at pansion do. But I’m not your parent, Pasha.”
Pasha nods. “Yeah. I'll try to get used to this thought.” He battles a weird urge to hug Lev, but his body refuses. Maybe someday he’ll be able to thank him for everything he’s done. “Um, why can’t Igor go with Naomi, then?”
Lev shoves his hands in his pockets. “He doesn’t want religion. I kept urging him, hoping he’d have a chance of a better life there.”
“But it’s the same with me.” Pasha turns to Naomi. She watches them, even though she doesn’t understand a word they’re saying. He switches to English. “Sorry, but reason is … I don’t want religion. Maybe it sounds, er, bad, but you were — um, Sonya, how do I say it?”
“A means to an end?” Sonya suggests in a whisper, her eyes wide.
“Yes. Sorry.”
Naomi knits her eyebrows, but even now, through disappointment, she gives them a kind nod. “I understand. I’m sad to hear that, but you shouldn’t force yourself into something you don’t want.”
“But — but wait,” Sonya says. “What about — the opportunity? You were saying, you wouldn’t have the opportunity if you stay here — ”
“Yeah, but … ” Pasha tries to come up with words. It was never his strength. “It feels like a cop-out, you know? Like I’m taking a shortcut and want Naomi to solve all my problems. Wouldn’t it be better for me to work it out on my own?”
Sonya’s face freezes for a moment; then, a small smile plays on her lips as she translates it to Naomi. A note of understanding passes between them. Naomi tells something to Lev, but all Pasha’s focus is on Sonya. It feels like he hadn’t seen her for so long. Definitely not her big, beaming smile. He’s barely present as Naomi and Lev say goodbye and leave. All he can think is that he and Sonya are together, under their tree again.
Alone.
Her eyes, though puffy, are still vivid blue, piercing him. He grazes his fingers across her cheek tentatively, and she leans against his palm. Their kiss feels a million light years away as if it happened in another life. Yet, only a few hours ago, their lips touched on this very spot. The thought of that makes Pasha flush even though cold wind covers his skin with goosebumps.
“Are you okay?” he asks her.
“I’m — I’m feeling way too many emotions right now.”
“Yeah. Me too.”
“I’m sorry your father took the brooch.”
“I’m not. He needs it more than I do.” He moves his hand to her hair, twirling a curl between his fingers. A feeble beam of the sun breaks through the clouds, trying to warm them. “So, were you serious about not letting me stay for you?”
Sonya grins. “Of course. Oh my goodness." She grabs his jacket. “Pasha.”
“What?”
“You’re staying. You’re staying! And I’m shortlisted for the competition.” She squeals and does a little jump.
“Wait — what?”
“Yup. It’s finally hitting me now. And I’ve made up with my parents. I told them everything. I showed them the notebook with your notes, I hope it’s okay?”
“Sure. Um, there’s nothing in there that would be awkward for them to see, right?”
“Hope so.” Sonya chuckles, but then freezes, and her eyes grow big. “Oh.”
Pasha’s heart leaps to his throat. “What?”
“Bad news. Papa said he will have a long conversation with you.” She pauses for a beat. “If I want to keep seeing you, that is.”
Then, she beams, warming him better than any sun.


Chapter Twenty-Three


June sun is blazing hot, and the shade of the maple tree does little to protect Sonya from it. She settles at the base of the tree, hoping she wouldn’t leave dirt on her turquoise dress. They have thirty minutes left, and Pasha is late. As always.
She reaches for a book in her backpack, checks that the price tag is off, and hides it back. A few of her classmates pass by, dressed up, their heels and boots click-clacking on sweltering asphalt. Beads of sweat gather on Sonya’s forehead and upper lip, and her curls sticks to the nape of her neck. She fans her hands over her face, trying to create an illusion of wind. At least her dress is light and only thin straps hug her shoulders so she won’t have wet stains under her armpits.
She hears Pasha jogging towards her even before he speaks.
“Hey, I’m here, sorry I’m — ” Pasha stops and gazes down at her. “Wow.”
Sonya beams. “So it was worth spending an hour on hair and make-up, then.”
Pasha gulps and slumps next to her, eyeing her. He opens and closes his mouth, then finally says, “You look amazing. I was secretly afraid you’d straighten your hair.” He takes her curl in his hand.
“You look great too.”
Pasha was about to start working full-time at the library, so he thought it would be a good investment to buy a pair of nice slacks and a white dress shirt. He even did something to his hair — it was more in place and neat than usual. Not that Sonya wasn’t looking forward to seeing her familiar messy-haired Pasha in a worn-out flannel shirt.
“How was the weekend with your father?” she asks, as Pasha still gazes at her.
“Um,” Pasha halts. “I want to say ‘great’, but … it was a little awkward. Nice, but awkward. We’re getting to know each other.”
“Have you figured out what to call him?”
“Nah. I’m calling him ‘hey’ for now which adds to the awkwardness. But it’s fine. We’ll get there. Step by step.”
“Of course. Like going into the water. Or falling in love.” Sonya nudges him with her shoulder. “Step by step.”
Pasha grins back at her. “He’s in there now.” He nods towards school building where a crowd has begun to grow already.
“He’s — ”
“Yeah. Sober. Almost a month.”
“Good.” 
Sonya bites her lip. There is probably no way they could avoid their parents meeting today. Her parents and Anya are in full religion submergence mode, and it does them good. There’s still tension in the air, but they’re working it out. Step by step.
Pasha unzips his backpack. “I have something for you. A present for my musical genius.”
“Oh, come on, I’m not — ”
“Second place in the biggest competition in Russia! Acceptance from Gnessinka! I’m calling you my musical genius, and there’s nothing you can do about it.” He takes out a big geography picture book, tied with a blue ribbon.
“No way!” Sonya grabs it.
“It wasn’t as difficult to find as I thought.”
She opens it, resting one half of the book on her lap, another on his. A piece of paper, folded in four, rests between pages, right on the page of Canada.
“Um, read it after, okay?” Pasha says, his face reddening.
“What is it?”
“Just some stuff.” He fidgets with a page corner. “You know I’m still learning to … say stuff. Some things are easier to write.”
“Thank you, Pasha.” Sonya lands a soft kiss on his lips. She can kiss him anytime she wants now, and each time it feels like a miracle.
He pulls away. “Um — won’t your lipstick be all smudged?”
“Don’t care.” Sonya brings him closer again, and his arms envelop her. The heat washes over her, burning her from inside, and she makes herself stop the kiss. She was already sweating from the sun, and now she’s almost giddy. She takes a calming breath. “I actually have something for you as well.”
She unzips her own backpack and holds out a Canada travel guidebook. Pasha gasps, and they put it on top of the children’s book. 
“Amazing!” He flips through the pages, tracing pictures with his finger.
“So we can go there,” Sonya says. “Together.”
“Maybe next summer? If I get into university, before the term starts?”
“Not ‘if’, but ‘when’.” She pokes his shoulder. 
“Right. I can’t waste an opportunity of having the best tutor by my side.” Pasha kisses her again, holds her close, and the rest of the world disappears. She knows they should stop and go to their graduation, but the kiss is too sweet to break. They still have time, no one probably noticed their absence yet — 
A phone buzzes. Pasha’s lips freeze, then he pulls away. Sonya grunts with disappointment and reads a message from Alina.


Where are you? Your parents are talking to someone, and I think it might be Pasha’s dad.


“Damn!”
Sonya jumps from the ground, stuffing the book into her backpack and shaking off dirt from her dress.
Pasha follows her lead. “What is it?”
“Alina saw our parents talking.”
They stare at each other for a second. Pasha nods resolutely. “We both knew this day would come. We just have to brave it.”
Sonya squares her shoulders and responds with her own nod. They clasp hands and march towards the building. They round the corner together and almost bump into Alina and Nina.
“Where were you?” Alina whispers. “The trio is over there.”
“Trio?”
“Two parents, one dad.” Nina nods at the crowd beside the school porch.
“I wish Anya was there,” Sonya says, looking around for her sister. “She’s great at resolving tension.”
Then she notices Alina and Nina eyeing her with sly grins.
“What?”
“What were you two doing?” Nina tilts her head.
“What do you mean?”
Alina raises a brow. “Someone has all her lipstick smudged.”
Sonya touches her lips, her cheeks burning.
Alina reaches into her bag and gives a hand mirror and wipes to Sonya, beaming. Sonya knows this look. It’s pure happiness, for both herself and for Sonya, and fearlessness of what’s to come. Sonya beams back, hoping to convey the same to Alina. 
She opens a hand mirror in front of her. Her lipstick is indeed smudged, so she wipes it with a napkin and applies a new layer. Pasha watches her intently, sending electricity through her body. 
Alina tosses him another wipe. “You’re smudged as well, mister.”
“Well, aren’t you two smart?” Pasha rolls his eyes and rubs the wipe across his mouth vigorously.
“It’s just learning from experience, trust me,” Alina says. 
“Wait, is there a story behind it?” Sonya gives her back her mirror.
“Oh yeah.” Nina tries to suppress a laugh. “We’ll tell you on our way.”
Sonya grabs Pasha’s hand again, and he responds with a squeeze. Sun blazes down at them, and cheers and chatter of their dressed up classmates hover in the air. Sonya glances at the maple tree standing in the distance, watching over them, its leaves whispering in the soft wind. Whatever happens now, they will always have a shelter to come back to. Together.
* * *