1 Train


Marina


In her dream, Marina was finally alive. Her skin greeted the kisses of the wind as she lay on the warm ground of the rye field and tried to count all the stars above her. They swirled and danced, Ursa Major turning into Cassiopeia, turning into Orion, turning into Vincent’s Starry Night. In her dream, her lips stretched into an unfamiliar smile, and her hand touched an unfamiliar lover. Long rye stalks swayed in the wind and spoke to her, shh, shh. The lover—face inscrutable—placed the hand on Marina’s shoulder and squeezed it, tight. 
She woke up with a gasp.
The faint, grey light of the full moon reigned in the room, shining over the stacks of clothes on the floor and dirty cups with cold coffee dregs. Marina sat in her bed slowly, her breaths sharp and shallow.
Each time, Marina woke up right after the touch. The tingling in her shoulder would keep bothering her for the next several hours, she knew. Only the tingling would be left, with no hope of remembering any other detail of the dream. Her eyes shut, she tried to grasp the feeling of the dream, the aftertaste, but all she sensed was the headache. It might’ve been from not sleeping enough or from the generous amount of alcohol consumed last night. Probably both.
Marina grabbed a bathrobe from the floor and tossed it on, then took two pain killers from the nightstand. She tried a few cups and one of them had enough coffee to wash down the pills. A coffee so bitter that she cringed with each gulp.
She dragged herself into the suffocatingly small kitchen, the smell of unwashed dishes permeating the stiff air, and made herself a fresh cup of coffee. She poured a splash of whiskey for good measure—it was Saturday after all. She sat at the rickety chair by the window, a ghostly reflection of a girl with dead eyes and unwashed blonde hair staring back at her. Always alone. Not even a cat or a dog—she’d probably have forgotten to feed the poor bastard. Remembering to feed herself was hard enough.
Remember, there was that word again.  She had no clue what the dream had been about, but she knew it was the same one she’d been having since, well, since before she could remember. The dream eluded her, but the residual warmth lingered for just a moment. The shoulder touch and the memory of things being different. The memory, or maybe the hope of her being warm, of lovingly touching another human. Touching was easy; it’s the lovingly part that evaded her. She’d kissed and fucked lots of men. Women, too. None of them had been love.
With one swift gulp, Marina finished her coffee. None of that mattered, really. It was a silly dream, repeating so often because she thought about it too much, and she thought about it too much because it kept repeating. An engine that kept on going. Marina looked at the full moon through the stained window. Her friend, the moon, a herald of night time, had already began to fade as the sky began to lighten. She just had to wait for the day to be over, for the damn sun to sink, and then the Train would come. It was more than just a place, it was her heart, her home, her everything. 


Marina was too impatient to wait till the dusk fell, so she began dressing up for the Train. She always had little patience for opening acts and burned for the action. So before the day even began to fade, she started braiding her hair so tight, her scalp hurt. Then she put on a sleeveless blouse, buttoned all the way up, a cape-like blazer on top, a short leather skirt, Oxford shoes—all black. The only light parts of her appearance were her limp hair and white skin, but they wouldn’t matter as soon as she entered the Train.
Marina went into a busy, buzzing Moscow street. Even far from the city centre, cars honked, people shouted, the city lived. She was a yet another shadow in the flock of people who worked hard and counted days to when it’d finally get better: as soon as summer comes, as soon as my vacation starts, as soon as I quit the job, as soon as … Her ‘as soon as’ was the Train and she had only a couple of hours to waste.
As the moon, still nearly full, lit up like a torch, Marina got into the metro train and, pressed by unknown, unwelcomed people from all sides, got to the city centre. The noises there were harsher, the lights wilder, as if brainwashing tired crowds into drinking their troubles away in some bar or club. Marina turned into one of the winding side-streets, eerily empty and quiet after the big street. She found stone steps leading down to a rusty metal door. Pinching her nose against the stench of urine, she went down, careful not to smudge her blazer against the dirty stone. She pulled the door open. It budged only on a third try, scraping open.
Darkness greeted Marina, smelling of mould and rot. She made a few confident steps through what she knew was a long tunnel, water trickling down its walls. Darkness was her friend; darkness was better than seeing all the rats. There was something comforting for Marina in not knowing.
Still, she got goosebumps on her arms and back as she walked, despite the fact that she had walked through this tunnel every Saturday for the last seven years. The thick heels of her Oxford shoes echoed in the tunnel, thud, thud, thud, occasionally stepping into a puddle, until finally Marina reached the abandoned train station. She had never made it her goal to find the entry into a long-abandoned metro station, or to board the mysterious Train that had no destination. As any big city, Moscow had an uncountable amount of secret nooks and crannies, hidden side-streets, easy-to-miss doors, and she was lucky enough to bump into one, so long ago, she wasn’t even sure how it happened. As to the Train, well, they said the Train chose the people it wanted to let in.
The platform was narrower than a typical Moscow metro station platform, without any columns or carvings. Two pairs of rails disappeared into the tunnel on both sides of the platform. It didn’t seem like this place should be busting with people, but the uneasy feeling overwhelmed Marina anyway. She checked the time. Almost seven o’clock. Not long now.
Finally, the rails began to rattle slightly, and the expectation send a tremor through Marina. 
“Come on, come on, come on,” she muttered under her nose.
Louder and louder the rails rattled until the Train appeared and began slowing down. At first glance, it was just a train. Light-blue in colour, a horizontal white line snaking along its body, forming an ‘x’ at every door. Your typical soviet metro train. It was only if you paid attention, that you noticed that something wasn’t right. The windows were tinted black. The dull chatter and laughter came from behind the doors.
The train halted to a stop and the doors opened. Marina went in, a smile stretching her lips for the first time that day—perhaps even that week. Instead of a typical metro train interior, a dimly lit small antechamber greeted her, bathed in purple neon light. It was nearly impossible to see anything inside, but Marina knew it was empty apart from a concierge who was mostly hidden behind a desk. Only the head was visible and instead of a human face, a white rabbit’s face looked at Marina.
Marina was familiar with the masks used in the Train, the masks that looked and felt eerily natural, but even now, Marina had a feeling it was a human with the real face of a rabbit looking at her. 
Without saying a word, Marina showed her inner wrist to the concierge. A crow tattoo with the letter M stood there. The concierge nodded, reached behind the desk and got a mask of a crow, its feathers and beak jet-black. Marina took the mask, fingers grazing the softness, the familiarity of it, and put it on.
“Welcome and enjoy,” the concierge said and unlocked the heavy door to the left.
Just as the Train began to slow down and open the doors to admit the next patron, Marina stepped through the doorway, into the bright light, and took a deep breath, finally able to relax, for the first time that week.
She was home. 


        Jerry 


Jerry had a lot of questions and not a soul to ask them. Just moments ago, he had stood in an abandoned train station in New York, a train station he had no clue how he’d even found. Now he was inside a train that looked like your usual New York train, and yet was drastically different inside.
When he’d first entered it, the room had been too dark to see anything, but now his eyes started to adjust to its purple light. After a considerable amount of freaking out, Jerry could see now that the creature in front of him wasn’t an actual rabbit with the body of a human. It was a person with a mask on, a mask that covered his whole head. A person who, through veiled words and hints, explained how the train worked.
“So, are you in or out?” The creature asked, their voice as androgynous as the body.
“Can’t I think about it?”
Jerry could swear the Rabbit rolled their eyes. 
“Think fast.”
Jerry poured over the big board to his right once again. 


First—and only—rule of the Train: anonymity. 
That means no real names. English is the only language allowed. The outside world and your lives there don’t exist. 
And you can never, ever, take off your mask.


“What would happen if someone breaks the rules?” Jerry asked.
The Rabbit ignored him. A shiver ran along Jerry’s body, and every part of him that was logic screamed at him to get out. Whatever delights, entertainment, joy the train promised for free, it wasn’t worth it. This place was creepy as hell, that much Jerry could see even from this tiny neon room alone. 
And yet, every part of him that wasn’t logic begged him to enter. What he had been searching for—that had to be inside. It couldn’t have been an accident that he stumbled across the abandoned train station. It was his heart leading him onwards.
“Yeah, okay, I’m in,” Jerry said, and his gut twisted with fear and excitement.
“Marvellous,” Rabbit said in the most bored tone Jerry’d ever heard. “You need to pick an animal for your mask.”
“Um, do you have an owl?”
Rabbit disappeared behind the curtain and soon came out with a shaggy, grey Owl mask. Jerry took it and sniffed carefully. It smelled surprisingly fresh, but Jerry could see a few battered feathers and spots here and there.
“It has been used before, has it?”
“Not much. Owl isn’t a popular choice. You can pay money right now to have the real mask made, and it’ll be ready next week—”
“No, I don’t need that,” Jerry said. The thought of coming here again made him feel uneasy. 
“First time everything is for free, including drinks, but when you come next week, you have to pay full price.”
“You mean, ‘if I come next week’.”
Rabbit snickered. “Sure. Just make sure to have the money ready for the admission as well as the mask. There is also an option of monthly and yearly subscription.”
Jerry looked over the prices and his head spun. “Damn, that’s expensive. And, I’m afraid to ask, but what’s a Devil’s Mark?” Jerry pointed at the item on the list with the price that seemed to belong to the estate agency instead. 
“Lifetime subscription,” the Rabbit said. “You get a tattoo on your inner wrist of your spirit animal and the first letter of your alias. It’s a great deal.”
Shiver ran through Jerry’s spine again. So someone actually paid a price that could buy them a whole house for the opportunity of coming here and wasting their life on drinks and entertainment. Jerry got an urge to flee from this insane train, but the train had already began to move and, in any case, that was just his body’s logical reaction to danger, and he had to ignore logic right now.
“I recommend you go to the Rave Room, get the Devil’s Ivy, then go straight for the Devil’s Keep.”
“Uh … what?”
“Just follow the crowd,” the Rabbit said, leading Jerry towards the door and opening the lock.
Jerry put his owl mask on his head, nodded and stepped through the threshold. 

        








































2 Devil


Marina


The Rave Room was packed. It had always been packed at the very start of the evening, as it had the most diverse choice of drinks. House music blasted from the speakers, finally deafening Marina’s thoughts. A sea of creatures with bodies of humans and heads of animals danced and drank and touched, coming together in trance-like movements.


First—and only—rule of the Train: anonymity. 
That means no real names. 


Eyes found her and halted, arms waved at her, outcries greeted her, and Marina relished in the attention. In the Train, she was the wonder. In the Train, nobody saw the oblivion in her eyes, the red skin around them. Nobody knew her as the exhausted, pathetic twenty-something that she was. Bathing in her loneliness, sleeping at odd hours, drinking too much, smoking too much, staying awake till her body trembled with exhaustion, watching gritty films and devastating news just to feel even a twinge of compassion, and feeling nothing nothing nothing.
And with a simple black mask of a crow, she hid it all. She became Margarita, a crow with black feathers and a shiny beak, all laden in black, the legend of the Train, the lover of the Devil, the first original patron.
Marina reached the bar, nodded at the bartender with a mask of a black bear and showed him her inner wrist with the Mark of the Devil tattooed on it.
“I know who you are, Margarita,” he said in a deep voice. “The usual?”
She nodded and took her shot of plain vodka and poured it all to her mouth in one swift gulp right through the mask. The bartender swiftly brought her another one.
“I’ll put it on your tab, as always.”


Anonymity means English is the only language allowed.


A laughter nearby somehow came through the music and made Marina turn. A group of creatures sat at a bar, cheering and trying to shout over the music. A Cat, a Boar, a Snake, some bird, a few others. Marina tried to turn away but she seemed to be frozen in the laughter and touches and embraces and cheers that they shared. She gulped her second shot of vodka, not tearing her eyes away from that group. She has seen them around, some were regulars, others popped in now and again. Whatever their lives were outside of the train, here they were friends.
Marina luckily was never a part of such a group. They came with too much drama, emotions, responsibilities. And what did they give in return? Nothing. What some people called love, connection, warmth didn’t mean anything to her. They were just empty notions with nothing behind them. It was a social construct as old as time. Yes, once people had needed to huddle up together in groups otherwise they wouldn’t have survived, but those times are long gone. Marina had survived completely alone, no friends or family for as long as she remembered. Even when she had what might be called a family, it was never about love or support. It was about Marina giving her parents the money she made from her summer job. It was about them asking her for favour and not appearing when she had needed something. That’s what family was, and she did not need that shit, thank you. 
A short man with the mask of a Snake shrieked and began jumping up and down, waving at someone. A tall woman with a mask of a leopard or a jaguar walked up to the group, shrieking as well, arms raised.
“Flair!” Snake said. “It’s been too long, girl! Where have you been?”
Marina didn’t hear the answer as Flair and the Snake-masked creature began wrestling, but no, that wasn’t wrestling, that was hugging and swaying and jumping in the air and screaming. They held each other tight, as if they tried to suffocate each other. Marina hoped they would.
But as she watched, she wondered what that would be like to be hugged like that. Like if the rest of the world just disappeared, they wouldn’t notice. Like their embrace was the only thing that mattered in that moment. Marina touched her shoulder. She tried to remember when she had last been hugged, or at least touched with care. In her dreams, every damn time, but in life? Perhaps her birthday when that chocolate cake had fallen on the floor and her mother had comforted her. But had that really happened or was that a fake memory a nine-year-old Marina had created that adult Marina kept holding on to even to this day?
“You started drinking without me,” someone shouted to Marina over the music.
Marina turned to see Mononoke, and a grey Wolf looked back at her. Mononoke was dressed in layers of furs despite the warmth of the train.
“Yes.” Marina waved to the bartender as Mononoke sat beside her. “You’ll need to catch up.”
“Gladly.”
Marina ordered two shots of Devil’s Ivy, the Train’s signature drink and the reason for the Rave Room to be so crowded—it was the only place in the Train where this drink was served. To many creatures in the Train Marina knew, the price of the drink was half of their monthly salary, and yet they kept coming for it. It was just that good.
“Thanks for coming here,” Mononoke said. “I know you hate Rave Room.”
“It’s loud.”
“I like loud. I never get to just shout like this at ho—”
Mononoke stopped speaking as if someone closed the lid of the laptop, and wrapped her fur coat tighter around herself. Marina looked away.


Anonymity means the outside world and your lives there don’t exist. 


Marina didn’t want and couldn’t know what ‘home’ for Mononoke was and why she couldn’t shout there. That was dangerous. Even now, Marina began wondering if she lived in a quiet neighbourhood or if she had a baby or …
No. Stop it. The outside world doesn’t exist.
Mononoke was just another creature and the last thing Marina should do is care about her. Still, she knew newbies slipped occasionally, but Mononoke has been a regular for years and years. Marina’s jaw tightened as she tried hard to not think about what that means, if Mononoke had had a bad week or …
No. Stop it. The outside world doesn’t exist. 
“Devil’s Ivy for the ladies,” the bartender said, clearly smiling under his Bear mask.
Marina grabbed a shot, its liquid black as charcoal, drops of acid green floating around, fire burning on top. Mononoke raised her shot as well and they drank without cheering. It was cold and hot, sweet and bitter, gentle and spicy, and it glided inside her, pure ecstatic joy, reaching every fingertip, every hair follicle, every thought. It made her alive like nothing else ever did.
Her eyes closed, Marina tilted her head back and took a deep breath, riding out the waves of vigour coursing through her, the deep basses of music making her head nod to the rhythm. When she opened her eyes, she let her gaze rest on creatures dancing for a while, enjoying the way Devil’s Ivy made their movements blur. The newbies were easy to spot, all pretty bland in their clothing, their masks quite primitive as they haven’t yet paid for a personal mask to be made. A Polar Bear in leggings—really, leggings? An Otter in a plain beige dress, there was a way to get lost in the crowd. An Owl, in boring chinos and a boring linen shirt.
Marina’s glance halted on the Owl as he walked towards the bar by the farther side of the Room. His chinos were actually mossy-green, reminding her of the forests in Moscow suburbs. His gait confident, as if he knew exactly who he was and didn’t need a mask to hide. They way he leaned on the bar felt almost as if she’d seen him do that before. She couldn’t have known him, she was sure of it. And yet the deep bass of the music pulsed in the rhythm of her heart, and the Ivy buzzed through her, and what she wanted was to get to him right that second, feel his body close to hers, get that mask off him to understand what’s bothering her about him.


Anonymity means you can never, ever, take off your mask.


Her legs almost jolted towards the Owl, but she held on to the bar. Damn Ivy. It made people go slightly mad, and it made Marina in particular very horny. Marina forced herself to look away, scratching at her shoulder.
“More drink?” Marina said to Mononoke loudly, silencing her thoughts.
They ordered another vodka shot for Marina and mojito for Mononoke. Drinking the second shot of Devil’s Ivy was not just expensive, but unreasonable. The effects would last for a few days, slowly diminishing, but still flowing inside like pure energy.
Marina watched the wolf-girl pour the liquid through the Wolf’s long snout and wondered at the masks’ ability to look and feel so lifelike and natural. Marina herself never once spilled a drink through what seemed an uncomfortably long beak. But she never questioned it. Why would a peasant question a miracle?
“Any plans for today?” Marina shouted, as the burning from the ice-cold vodka spread from her throat to her chest. 
“The Clove Cottage.”
“Again? Haven’t you been there the last three weeks?”
Mononoke shrugged. “It’s calm there.” She turned around and nodded at the woman Marina saw earlier. She had a mask of what Marina could now see was a Jaguar and a costume that seemed to belong to Xena the Warrior Princess—a mix between a bikini and a silver armour. “Flair will play the mandolin. It’s peaceful.”
Marina smirked. “I don’t know how you can stay in one carriage. Aren’t you curious about the rest of the train?”
“Some things I prefer not to know. But first,” Mononoke said and finished her mojito, “the Devil’s Keep.”
The wolf-girl waved goodbye to the bartender, and together with Marina they walked towards the tall doors at the edge of the bar. Marina glanced at Owl as she walked past him and again the desire to be close to him swept over her, making her head spin. She could swear she smelled his sweat and deodorant, however unrealistic that was. Maybe she should ease up on the drinks.
The moment they went through the doors, the techno music died off. They went past a hot, smoky Caterpillar Joint where a few creatures already lay, spread on the carpets, smoking a hookah. Past an empty Velvet Lair, bathing in dim, magenta lights, with the sad, as-of-yet unused cushions, beds and sex toys. Past the Clove Cottage where Mononoke would disappear later, with the smells of spices and crowds of creatures huddled around the big wooden table.
Finally they reached the Devil’s Keep, an enormous grand hall in black and gold. The carpeted staircase lead to the balconies that edged the walls on all sides. One balcony, decorated with intricate black and gold carvings, jutted slightly and hovered menacingly over the stage that was framed with black velvet curtains and gold thread work. 
The Devil’s Keep was already packed to the brim, filled with creatures walking around with expensive champagne, and Marina and Mononoke found a spot at the edge of the hall where they could see the extended balcony. The orchestra on the stage played a foreboding string music that tried to catch you, sprint after you, wailing in agony as it went.
Just a few moments after Marina and Mononoke entered, the melody has began to die down, and creatures started whispering and turning their heads towards the grand balcony. Even the black crystal of the enormous chandelier seemed to tense in anticipation.
The Devil was about to appear.


Jerry


The grand hall began to almost quiver, as the whispers and hushes hissed throughout the air and everyone shot their faces, no, masks upwards, towards the biggest balcony. That unnerved Jerry. As if everyone was in on the secret, and he alone was in the dark. Everybody acted like everything was completely normal: the masks that made people look like bizarre mythical creatures, the mere fact that the train had appeared out of nowhere and went nowhere, never reaching this nowhere.
This whole train with all these people, their faces hidden behind the masks, was unnaturally wrong. So many of them pretending to be someone else, trying to hide from reality, to forget their troubles by burying their heads in the sand. Things could go wrong in so many different ways when everyone was incognito. Jerry touched his own owl mask, adjusting it even though it didn’t need adjusting. It fit him too perfectly. Why did it feel like a second skin and not a mask? He had too many ‘why’s.
The limelights flashed at the balcony and the lowest of murmurs ceased. Jerry stood among strangers in masks, and the inexplicable feeling of belonging flooded him. Not to the crowd, not to the train, not to whoever was about to appear at the balcony. But to one person who mattered and who, Jerry was getting surer by the second, was in this hall. His hand almost burned, remembering the last touch they’d shared. How he had put his hand on the shoulder of the person he loved, knowing he would never see them again. 
At least until the next life. 
Each lifetime they had been separated. Each lifetime they had drawn towards each other like magnets. It was never a question of whether they would find each other. The question was whether they would both remember, or run out of time and live the rest of their lives lost, a chunk of their souls missing.
There were times when Jerry used to wonder if other people felt that longing inside, that ache for someone they couldn’t quite recall. If other people would notice a birthmark shaped like a bird or freckled cheeks or callouses on long fingers, and something would stir inside. “Have we seen each other before?” or “why does my stomach flip?” He hadn’t known it then, how all those things reminded him of the many shapes and forms his love took throughout their lives.
Jerry had no clue how they kept coming back to each other. It didn’t matter what continents they were born on, what genders, religions, ages they were, they would always draw close to each other. He had spend so much time searching, talking to people, reading about things he’d once called woo-woo until, slowly, it came to him. Not quite the remembrance of his past lives—rather the love, the bond, the stronghold that was the union of their souls, torn apart, drawing closer, torn apart again. 
And now, Jerry knew, the person he had loved through all his lives was here. Probably that’s why he was so drawn to a dingy basement in a dingy New York side-street, that led him to this train. Now the trick was to remember that person and to hope they would remember him.
A figure on the top balcony entered the limelights, drawing every set of eyes to it. It was a tall man, dressed in a black, impeccable suit, his arms behind his back. Instead of a face there sat a deer’s skull with vast antlers. Shiver ran down Jerry’s back. Fear, he thought. Fear is what the person behind the mask was going for when he chose the deer’s skull as a mask, creating the image of horror movies’ interpretations of Wendigo. Yet, all around him Jerry heard outcries of awe and murmurs of reverence.
Then, the man spoke with an impeccable British accent, a low human voice that scraped and grazed and was so utterly wrong coming from the Wendigo creature.
“Good evening, darlings, and welcome to the Train.”
Jerry expected the round of applause, but the hall was dead quiet. Nobody drank the champagne or whispered or checked their phone.
“I am the Keeper of this Train, and I am beyond delighted to see you all,” the speaker, whom Jerry could only think of as Wendigo, continued. “It has been my pleasure to open the Train’s doors for you every Saturday for many years. Some of you have been lost, and the Train found you. Some have stumbled in the wrong direction, and the Train guided you towards the right one. Some of you have buried themselves under regrets and disappointments and the Train dug you out and scrubbed you clean. You all needed the Train the most when it took you in, and this is something I will always hold dear to my heart.”
Wendigo outstretched his arms to the sides, as wide as his antlers, forming an eerie symmetry. He curled his long fingers around the balustrade, in a measured way and in total silence, as every stare was glued to him.
“Now, before we continue to enjoy our evening, I wanted to greet our newcomers. I spotted a Fox, a Robin, an Owl, among others.”
Jerry could swear Wendigo looked at him, right at him, even though he couldn’t see his eyes. He got goosebumps from him, and those were a very, very bad kind of goosebumps.
“And I wish I could give each and every one of you a private tour but the Train will be there for you, along with other patrons. The Train holds plenty of secrets, and it will be up to you to discover them. And, who knows, we might bump into each other in one of the rooms, when you least expect it.”
Again, a creepy feeling that Wendigo talked directly to him spilled onto Jerry like an ice-cold water.
“Lastly, I have to remind you that when the dawn comes, the Train stops, so use your time here wisely. Never reveal all the secrets, darlings, and let the debauchery begin!”
At that, the crowd erupted like a volcano and the hall became alive, following Wendigo’s command. Chatter and buzzing filled the hall, and the orchestra started a jumpy, turbulent tune as Wendigo, all eyes still on him, walked along the perimeter of the balcony and towards the grand black and gold staircase. The crowd moved towards the staircase, greeting the keeper of the train as if he was a rock star or an A-list celebrity. 
“He’s amazing,” a hushed whisper reached Jerry.
He glanced at the people near him, a Mouse and a Fox.
“Right? That’s what I told you,” the Mouse whispered back. “The Devil alone is worth coming to the Train.”
They spoke, but their masks didn’t move, and the surreal effect kept unnerving Jerry. They all resembled puppets, Wendigo as their ventriloquist.
“I swear, when he greeted the newcomers, he looked at me!” The Fox said. “He looked right at me!”
Well, damn. Has every newcomer felt that, as well as Jerry? He watched Wendigo come down to the welcoming arms of the creatures. The sweep of the crowd moved him towards him, like a torrent rushing a twig to the edge of the waterfall. Jerry pushed back, elbowing creatures around him, but all was in vain. With every involuntary step, he moved closer to the grinning Devil and the mad herd whose arms reached out to him, searching even the smallest touch. 
 The crowd around Jerry was thick, but on the sides of the hall, people walked and danced and drank, glancing at the crowd occasionally. Jerry tried to claw his way out, crying out at people to get out of his way. His breath caught somewhere in his throat. He really, really didn’t want to find himself in the midst of it all when these people reached Wendigo. The torrent rushed him further, further, further on … 
A hand grabbed his wrist and yanked him out of the crowd.
Away from the deluge, Jerry finally took a calming breath and looked at a lanky guy in a grey Hare mask.
“Do you want to be trampled to death or something, Newbie?” He said, letting go of Jerry’s wrist.
“Thank you,” Jerry breathed out and for a moment stared at the Hare. Could he be that person he’s been searching for? There was no recognition from Jerry’s part, at least not right away. “Thank you,” he repeated. “That was insane.”
“Welcome to the Train, I suppose. Insane is its middle name.”
“Right.” Jerry tried to wipe the sweat of his brow, only realised that his mask was in the way. “I think I need a drink.”
Hare barked a laugh. “Follow me, Newbie.” He turned towards the doors of the room and Jerry hurried after him. “I’m Peter Pan,” the lanky guy said over his shoulder.
“J—” Jerry bit his tongue. “Damn, I haven’t had a chance to come up with an alias.”
“Well, pick one now.”
“Okay. Uh. I’m … Owl?”
Peter Pan chuckled. “That’s original.”
The way Peter Pan’s ’d’ and ‘g’ sounds came out as ’t’ and ‘ch’ made Jerry think his native language might be German. Or maybe some Scandinavian language? Jerry knew he couldn’t ask him that and he shouldn’t focus on these things, but they felt important to him.
They walked out of the Devil’s Keep, and Peter Pan led him though cars of the train, walking briskly enough so that Jerry didn’t get a chance to see what was inside. He noticed that each car had two doors—one through which they came in, another through which they went out. So the structure of this place did resemble a train. A long chain of cars all connected through doors.
They reached a large circular room, its air filled with dense smoke. The smells of weed hit Jerry at once, later joined by fruity smells from the many hookahs on the floor. People lay on the soft cushions on the floor and quietly talked. He noticed that everyone spoke only English, although he had heard a myriad of different accents since he entered the train. For all he knew, two people talking to each other with strong French accents might be from the same city, and they’d never know.
This room was a huge contrast from the flashing room with the bar, and the grand hall, all glistening in gold. It was carpeted on all sides, not too crowded, and quiet.
Peaceful.
“Not that I’m complaining,” Jerry said, following Peter Pan across the room, their steps deafened by a thick green carpet, “but I thought we were gonna have drinks?”
“Precisely.”
Peter Pan gestured at a small bar at the other end of the room. He grabbed two beers out of a row of many, gave one to Jerry and sipped his own. Jerry looked at the bottle, trying to figure out how to drink it through a mask. But the cut near his lips was wide enough for the opening of the bottle. He gulped the beer, and its cold bitterness relaxed him and made him feel more alive at the same time.
Jerry looked closely at Peter Pan’s gestures, voice, mannerisms. With each lifetime, Jerry’s and his lover’s bodies changed but they still recognised each other and Jerry remembered that feeling, if vaguely. He could be seeing the person for the first time, but their mannerisms would be familiar. With Peter Pan, there was nothing of the sort.
“Thanks again for helping me,” Jerry said and they clinked their beers. “Those people were as if possessed.”
 “Yeah, standing in the middle of the Devil’s Keep during the opening speech doesn’t just give you a nice view,” Peter Pan barked a laugh. “You should stand at the edge of the Keep next time.”
Jerry ignored the mention of the ‘next time’ as if it was a given. “Why the hell didn’t anyone tell me that?”
Hare shrugged. “Like Horny said, we don’t reveal all the secrets.”
“Uh, who?”
“Horny. You know, the creepy tall antler dude, the Keeper of the Train, the Devil himself?”
“Wait, so his name is really Horny?”
Peter Pan snickered. “Ah, being a newbie again. He has many names. Everybody sort of comes up with their own name. Most are ominous, like Fiend, Devil, all that crap.”
“And yours is Horny?” Jerry raised a brow with a little smile, but then realised Peter Pan won’t be able to see his expressions. How were people supposed to communicate in these damn masks?
“Cause he’s horny, but also, you know—” more hand gestures, and Jerry guessed Peter Pan might be wiggling his eyebrows “—he’s horny.”
“Clever,” Jerry said not without sarcasm. With a pang, he realised that he had given the name to the keeper of the train without realising it’d been something everybody did. He already belonged more than he wanted to. He took a swig. “How come it’s so easy to drink through the mask? It looks undoable, and then you do it and—”
“Hey, man,” Peter Pan raised his palm. “Don’t do this, okay?”
“Do what?”
“Don’t ruin the mystery with questions, okay? It doesn’t matter.”
“I mean, don’t you find it curious? Like, where did the train even come fr—”
“Hey, so have you tried Devil’s Ivy already?” Peter Pan asked, his voice level.
Jerry sighed. He’d just have to deal with this place. “No, but the bartender really wanted me to try it when he found out I was a newbie. Kept saying it was mind-blowing.”
“Well, you should always trust the beartender. It is mind-blowing.”
Jerry chocked over a sip of his beer. “Excuse me, did you just say ’beartender’?”
“Yeah, cause he has a mask of a bea—”
“I get it,” Jerry said and laughed. Peter Pan was almost a full head taller than he and yet felt like a younger sibling. “So, have you been in the Train many times?”
“It’s my third time, but it feels like I’ve been here forever, you know? It’s the highlight of my week. All the mystery, secrets … ” 
Peter Pan’s voice trailed off as if expecting Jerry to ask ‘what secrets?’. He seemed to enjoy not being the newbie anymore.
“What secrets?” Jerry obliged, taking a swig of his beer.
Peter Pan lowered his voice and leaned closer. “Weird stuff is happening in this Train, man. I heard crazy stories.”
“Like what?” Jerry whispered back.
“Like people being transported to a different reality, where everything is the opposite of our world. Like seeing your dead relatives and stuff. Or being stuck in a loop, one day repeating itself.”
Jerry chuckled. “Sounds a lot like a Hollywood movie plot.”
“You don’t believe, huh?”
“I believe that those people believe that happened to them. After they took something to expand their mind.”
“Okay, be a sceptic. I’d love something like to happen to me.” Peter Pan sipped his beer. “But it’s not just cool stuff, either. I’ve heard, like, dark stuff from people who think they were punished by Horny.”
“Are you kidding me? Why would he punish anyone?”
“For breaking the anonymity rule, duh.”
Jerry remembered that the Rabbit who greeted him when he first entered the train conveniently ignored his question about the anonymity rule and the potential punishment. Jerry shook his head. “This place is insane.”
“Yeah, like I said, insane is it’s middle na—”
“No, I mean it.” Jerry said in an urgent whisper, leaning even closer to Peter Pan. “It’s not right. This whole anonymity thing. That people don’t show their faces, don’t tell their real names, don’t ask any questions.”
Peter Pan didn’t answer, but his hand gripped his beer bottle harder and he turned away from Jerry. A group of people came through the door and walked through the car towards the opposite door. Peter Pan straightened with a jerk and waved to them like a kid on a playground. 
“Hey, guys!”
The group didn’t seem to hear him, or rather, Jerry realised, pretended not to. 
“Guys, hey, where are you going? The Clove Cottage?”
A person in the mask of a snake nodded, without stopping.
“Can I come with?” Peter Pan asked, as the snake already moved by. A tall woman with the mask of a jaguar walked by, and Peter Pan almost blocked her way. “Flair, can I come with?”
The Jaguar woman sighed and said, “Uh-huh.”
Peter Pan turned to Jerry and slapped his shoulder. “Gotta go. Nice chatting to you.”
Jerry watched the group, Peter Pan in tow, move towards the doors. A shimmery red scarf slipped from the tall woman’s neck and Jerry handed it to her, their hands brushing. She thanked him, and again, Jerry readied himself for a hint of recognition, but nothing happened. As he turned back to the bar, he bumped into a Wolf, no, a girl with a wolf mask, layers of fur hugging her body. She nearly bounced back, and he steadied her with his hands on her arms.
“Sorry,” they mumbled at the same time, and the girl hurried on after the group.
Jerry sat by the bar and put the beer bottle to his lips, but it was empty. He wanted to rub his face, wash the weariness off it, but of course the damn mask was in the way. If he would expect every person he bumps into to be that person, he would burn out before the sky darkens completely. He looked through the window at the moving scenery. It was all the same—nondescript fields, green trees, dark blue sky with a few stars scattered, a full moon.
An all-consuming loneliness spread its cockroach arms around Jerry in a stiffening embrace. He had spent most of his life searching, searching, searching. Finally, he felt the tug of being close to them, the person who knew Jerry even without knowing who he was. And this waiting, this worry that they might not recognise each other, walk right by, killed him. 












3 Lurch


Marina 


Marina leaned over a black stone column at the edge of the Devil’s Keep, watching the creatures push each other by the staircase. They all wanted to touch him, to speak even one word to him, to have his eyes settle on them for the fraction of a second. 
And all Woland—the Devil—wanted was Marina. 
He’d never say it to her. He’d never admit it to himself. He wouldn’t rush to her through the crowd, and it might take him several hours to spare a moment to even glance to her. Yet, he needed her, just as she needed him.
She watched Woland, her body buzzing with thrill. He had enchanted them all. He had a way with words, the way the sweet velvet of his voice carried around and touched everyone in the Keep. He knew how to move his body and his arms as if directing an orchestra. They didn’t need to see his face, because his body was enough, and Marina needed it right now.
She had no trouble admitting it. She needed Woland’s darkness and edges and rough hands on her body. They were the same, belonging to the darkness and absorbing whatever light came their way. But she didn’t have to break through the crowd or to shove everyone to the side to get to Woland. He’d find her. He always did.
She walked up the other, smaller staircase, towards the bar on the balcony. She took a drink and watched herself in the mirror for a few moments. Margarita looked back at her, all laden in black, her posture confident, the Crow’s black eyes glinting. She loved being Margarita, this fearless, unapologetic creature who belonged in the Train and made heads turn.
 In the mirror’s reflection she saw Woland moving towards her, attracting glances. Most of the creatures in the Train felt like he was looking and talking directly at them, while Marina knew from Woland himself that he didn’t care about any of them. He cared about their money and the entertainment he got when things got wild. But people wanted him to want them, and the brains completed the picture. They watched him come up to her and they were jealous, Marina knew. They were jealous because the Devil himself came to her in the crowd, yet they might not be that jealous if they knew about the bruises and scratches he painted on her body.
Turning away from the mirror and towards the banister of the staircase, Marina closed her eyes. She sensed Woland’s gaze on her, the heat of his body coming closer to her. Even before he spoke, she knew he was behind her, his antlers spread above them like wings, his lips touching her mask near her ear.
“Margarita,” he purred, if a wild, starving lion could purr. “Did you enjoy my speech?” 
“I held on to every word,” she whispered sarcastically, half-turning to him.
Woland chuckled, a low, rumbling sound that woke the monster inside her. He knew she lied. They played each other all the time, getting tangled in their lies and sarcasm and teasing and never-truths.
“I should hope so.” He pressed himself closer, making every hair on her body stand. “You’re the one I wanted to please.”
Woland handed her one of the whiskey glasses he held. Marina noted a deep scratch on his forearm. She painted on his body too, ever since their first time, years ago, when he took her blood by taking her virginity, and she took his blood by biting through his skin. This was their blood oath, to each other, and to the Train. This was their game. Hurt me till I can’t take it, and then hurt me some more.
“Have you seen the new carriage yet?” Woland’s free hand touched her back, the smallest touch, but she knew if she moved he would let out his claws and grip her. “Apparently it already has a name. The Burrow.”
“You think one of the newbies brought it on?”
“Could be. Train works in mysterious ways, my darling.”
Marina turned to face him. “I want to claim it. Now.”
“Easy, Margarita. We’ll have time.” Woland gripped her tighter, his hand moving to her thigh. He wanted her, bad. But what he loved more than claiming a new carriage with Marina is torturing her by playing the part of the unattainable Devil. “For now, I’m curious exactly how desperate some of those creatures are,” he nodded at the crowd near the staircase that began to disperse as soon as Woland left it.
“Desperate to fuck you?”
“Crude,” Woland said in mock horror. “Desperate to get close to the Devil.”
His fingers brushed her inner wrist, her tattoo, her Devil’s Mark, as if patting the black crow’s feathers, and Marina’s whole body responded to the touch. Her mark had been the first ever made, right there on the Train. She had paid for a lifetime subscription in a heartbeat. It’d cost her several of her salaries, but she didn’t care. Apart from booze and occasional fast food delivery she had nothing to spend her money on.
“You haven’t made new Devil’s Marks in a while, have you, Woland?” Marina asked in a smug tone, tracing her fingers along his stomach. She needed him, bad. But what she loved most was their prelude. Getting him aroused was easy, but getting him mad—mad with rage, mad for her—is what made it fun. Mad enough so he would leave deep gashes on her body, and ask her for the same in return. “Are you losing your touch?”
“Am I?” Woland whispered just as his hand slid under her leather skirt and stroked her inner thigh. 
Marina bit her lip so she wouldn’t gasp in pleasure and thanked all the gods and devils for the mask. He didn’t touch her explicitly, just brushed his knuckles over her skin, torturing her. She knew he wanted her to beg, but it was her rule, no matter how desperate she was to get close to the Devil, she would never beg. She would make him want it more, till he could no longer take it and beg, beg, beg.
Creatures by the staircase eyed them, and Marina hoped they could see where his hand was.  They all wanted Woland, she knew, women and men, gay and straight, and everyone in between. Some wanted his body, others his intellect; some his attention, others an idea of him they have imagined in their heads. Marina didn’t want him; she didn’t even like him, really. Her need was deeper, all consuming. They belonged to each other. They were mirrors of each other’s darkness. She didn’t need—or deserve—any better.
“Stop,” she made herself say, and he did, but not after taking a few extra seconds for himself. “Go and please those despaired before they cracked their necks looking at us.”
“The word is ‘desperate’, not ‘despaired’, my darling.”
“I don’t give a fuck, my darling.”
“In that case, I shall go and please the ‘despaired’.”
Woland turned around and left. Even though he did what she told him to, he was the winner this time. He left her wet, hot, and aching for his touch. Marina emptied the whiskey Woland gave her in one gulp, put the glass on the bar and left the Devil’s Keep, not giving a single glance to Woland and the crowd around him.


Marina walked through the Train, her body electric. One carriage gave way to the next, the next, the next, and they always switched places so she never knew what carriage she walked in. That was the charm of the Train. There were no maps or plans or descriptions. The train simply was, and there was nothing else Marina loved but the Train. 
She loved the lavishness of the Devil’s Keep that was grander than Bolshoi Theatre, and she loved knowing that even though Woland was surrounded by hungry hands, he still watched her go and disappear behind the doors.
She loved the sweet pleasure of the Velvet Lair, especially that one nook, half-concealed by a sheer curtain, where she had enjoyed many wonderful creatures. The whole place was alive now, moaning and buzzing and murmuring and moving in perfect, natural rhythms like a gigantic, beautiful beast. 
She loved the quaint cosiness of the Clove Cottage where you could always find food and relish in the whispers of conversations. That was where Mononoke now sat, the wolf-girl, the only person Marina could more or less tolerate. She gave Marina a small wave as she reclined sideways in the armchair, one leg hanging from its arm.
Marina loved the secrecy of the Glitter Haunt, the room all bathed in green neon lights. After leaving that carriage Marina would keep finding green glitter on her body throughout the whole night.
Most of all, she loved Persephone’s Dungeon, the oldest room in the Train. This was her home within her home. She named that carriage, too, and nothing in the world belonged to her more than this place. It was a spacious round hall full of ruins of stone Greek statues and columns and various doors running around it’s walls. Marina didn’t have time to explore its secrets right now, however.
She had to go to the Caterpillar Joint.
She wasn’t sure why she had to get there, but she let the Train and her body lead her through the door out of Persephone’s Dungeon, through the next carriage, the next, the next and there it was. The Caterpillar Joint seemed to be made of smoke from hookahs, and Marina felt high from just the smells of weed alone. People lay right on the red oriental carpets and low cushions and pillows thrown around the room. Heavy red curtains hung from above, shielding the room from outside light coming from the windows. The train moved almost silently, but the Caterpillar Joint was one of those quiet carriages where the rattle of the wheels against the rail was louder than conversations and music.
Marina was about to go to the bar on the opposite side of the carriage, but stopped as the Owl she saw before sat there, looking right at her.  She met his eyes through two masks between them. She was used to stares from newbies as well as regular patrons of the Train, but Owl’s stare unnerved her, as if he could see through her Margarita mask and see that sad, lonely, pathetic Marina.
What unnerved her more, however, was that her body urged her, begged her to get closer to him, just as it did in the Rave Room. There was something so alluring about the way he moved, the way his hand gripped the beer bottle, the way his legs bent, resting on the stool’s foot rest. It was the effects of the Devil’s Ivy, she told herself. She was just horny as hell and needed Woland. Even that short conversation with him charged her with electricity and overflowing desire that was impossible to shake off. Only he would release it, pressing her against the wall, tearing her clothes, biting her skin. Only with him she would be able to shake it off, scratching deep into his skin, and fucking him until they both exploded in hatred and fury. 
And she wanted that, that, she wanted Woland, and yet why couldn’t she stop looking at the Owl, why was her body urging her to close the distance between them, why did she want to take that fucking mask off him and toss it away? And why did her own beloved mask feel like a barrier rather than a part of her? Her shoulder tingled annoyingly, as if someone poked it again and again and again, trying to bring her attention to something.
She made a step towards the Owl. He didn’t take his eyes off her. She should just get him in her nook in the Velvet Lair and be done with it. She needed to strip away the mystery and see he was just another man underneath it all. He will do till she can get Woland. As she made another step, her stomach churned at the thought of using him just to get off. It felt wrong, and still, she made another step forward.
Get out get out get out. Get closer closer closer.
Before she could decide, the Owl put his beer down, stood from the stool and moved towards her. 




















Jerry 
 
Through the dense smoke of the room, through masks and their lies, a woman stared at Jerry. She wore all black, starting from her neat Oxford shoes, ending with her crow mask, its feathers jet-black. Jerry didn’t need to see her face to recognise the soul he sought, the soul he had been loving through all of his lives. A drumbeat of his heart was unmistakable, thrashing in his ribcage louder and quicker, a relentless monster.
The woman made a small, hesitant step towards him. Then another. Jerry’s hand tingled with the memory of the last touched they shared. As if a brilliant, blinding light shone onto a dark stage, the memory flooded him. Just a second passed, but he saw it all clearly, as though he had lived it all again once more.


Two boys are stretched in the field, tall rye stalks shielding them from the rest of the world. Their shoulders are touching, hands not quite. The moon above them glows, then hides behind the wispy clouds, then shines again with ever greater brightness, as if unable to decide what it wants to do. Constellations look down at the boys, eternal and perfectly still. 
Both came from two different shores of the European continent, drawn to each other as it always happened. Both didn’t recognise the beloved soul, the one they sought without realising it. Both are too terrified to make the first move. So many scary possibilities, ranging from losing a friend to being beat up for being a ‘faggot’.
Jerry remembers being one of these boys, his hair cut short and darker than the crow’s feathers. The boy next to him has a constellation of freckles on his face, mirroring the ones in the sky. He, Jerry remembers, is the softest, gentlest human being. Always has a smile for everyone, even when he struggles to find one for himself. Cries when hears about a dog being thrown out of the house. Holds Jerry close when Jerry runs away from home, and gives him his clothes when Jerry shivers from the rain.
They lie under the indecisive moonlight, not quite touching, both bodies buzzing with excitement of being so close. This is their last chance to do anything before they have to say goodbye. Their chance to—well, not to be happily together, no. But to let each other know how much they’re loved. To tell each other they are the first choice, they are important, they are needed. To have that first—and last—kiss.
They don’t. They talk till the moon goes pale in the light of the day. They stand up and walk to the road, to the houses where that boy’s suitcases are ready. They stop to say goodbye. They shuffle awkwardly, looking at each other, then at people walking by. Silly, so silly, they should’ve said their goodbyes on the field, in that tall rye. Here, they can’t even make a step towards each other and embrace. Awkwardly, Jerry places his hand on the boy’s shoulder and squeezes it. You’ll be fine, he promises. I’ll be fine too, he hopes.
Years later, they see each other again. Both with wives on their arms and too distant from those boys in the rye field to say anything significant to each other. To themselves, they say, there were just naive young boys back then. It wasn’t anything special. Your memory just embellishes your friendship. It was just a silly crush. He never gave you any signals, and you were just inexperienced. It wasn’t anything special.
 They don’t touch. They lose each other in the crowd and go on living their lives, always wondering, always asking themselves if they really were just silly, naive boys or … Next time Jerry hears about the boy, it’s to hear about his death. Jerry dies soon after, as if eager to join his love in the next life, eager to start the search again.


Nothing had been in vain. Him running away from home, breaking off all connections, moving from place to place—nothing had been in vain. They found each other, no, better, they recognised each other.
His whole life was reduced to this moment, to this soul on the other side of the smoky carriage, in the train that had no destination. An instinct overflowed him. He had to get close to her, be near her, right now, this very moment, he had to hold her close and finally tell her what he couldn’t last time.
Jerry couldn’t think anymore. Eyes still locked with the Crow woman, he put the beer down, got up from his stool and moved towards her.


Marina


First—and only—rule of the Train: anonymity. 
That means no real names. English is the only language allowed. The outside world and your lives there don’t exist. 


And you can never, ever, take off your mask.


The Owl moved towards Marina in a bold, urgent way. The rest of the Train could’ve disappeared, the rest of the world could’ve disappeared, they could’ve been floating in ether, and he wouldn’t have noticed. Marina’s body pleaded her onward, but she planted her feet firmly into the floor. Whatever is happening, it’s danger, was the only thing she could think, and then—
Warmth. A body close to hers, heart to heart. Arms closed around her with gentle pressure, a breath tickled her neck.
“There you are,” came a whisper of a quivering, soft voice. A voice that could’ve been broken at any moment by rapture, shock, euphoria that threatened to spill over the edges. “There you are.” 
Marina had to push away this warmth, this stranger, get his hands off her as if he wasn’t a human, but a thousand cockroaches creeping along her body. She would do it, now. She had to.
But another instinct held her back. To raise her arms that weighted a ton, place them around this stranger and bring him closer to her, push them together hard so their bodies would become one.
So Marina stood, trembling, and the tremble grew, and turned into a tremor, that turned into an earthquake, and at any moment she would explode and lava would burst out from within. But finally—unfortunately—Owl let her go.
“You’re trembling,” he said. Arms still wrapped around her, he leaned back a little and looked at Marina, straight through the mask, into her eyes. “Damn mask, I can’t even see you.”


And you can never, ever, take off your mask.


He reached for his mask and pulled it off his head. 
The creatures around them gasped and shrieked. The Train lurched as if on a bump and more shouts came. The room grew very hot to Marina as she looked into the man’s face, so utterly wrong in the sea of creatures. 
His eyes were of an uncertain colour, grey or green or brown, as if they couldn’t decide what they wanted to be. The scattering of pale freckles on his cheeks made his face softer, more tender, a face you want to trust. His hair ran past his ears, touching his neck, and it was the sweetest colour of sunflower honey.
The lights in the Train went on and off, on and off, and still the man’s eyes were glued to Marina. He radiated light and hope that felt so alien to her. She didn’t need that, and yet, she couldn’t look away.
The Train lurched again, making them almost tumble down and the stranger held her firmer. Woland would appear any second now, and this man would be punished in such a way that Marina didn’t even dare to imagine. Without thinking, she grabbed his forearm and pulled him out of the carriage, away from the creatures who stared, pointed, gasped. The Train lurched yet again.
“What’s going—”
“Shut up,” she barked, dragging him after her, hand clasped around him. The touch burned her skin, but she held on tight.
She reached Persephone’s Dungeon. Out of a dozen different doors, all of different sizes, shapes and colours, with different knobs and locks, she opened a small plain door of red mahogany wood and shoved the man inside, pressing him against the wall with a hand on his chest. She closed the door, leaving them in total darkness.
This little room was her safe haven. For any person coming here by accident, it was just a closet, tight and hot, without even a light switch anywhere. Marina, however, knew its secret, and she vowed to herself to guard it forever, and now she was here with the man she didn’t even know.
“Why—” the man tried, but Marina pressed her other hand to his mouth, and her shoulder burned.*
“I said, shut up,”she hissed.
Trying to ignore him and her shoulder, she listened. Footsteps. Light and pounding at the same time. Footsteps of someone who owned the place and everyone inside. Someone who knew he would find what he was looking for, like a parent playing hide-and-seek with their child. Only the parent was a monster and the child had no idea what he had gotten himself into.
Why did Marina even bring this stranger here? If anything, she should be leading him to Woland, laughing at him, enjoying the punishment he’d get. He broke the most important rule of the Train, and Marina chose this pathetic man over the Train. She was a traitor. Why why why, her mind screamed at her, but she had nothing to say for herself.
Footsteps died down slowly, but Marina wasn’t tricked. If Woland hadn’t shown himself, that didn’t mean he didn’t know what had happened. There’s no way this stranger will escape the punishment, Marina thought, and the Train lurched again, stronger this time, proving her right.  
Marina’s eyes began to adjust to darkness. The man’s heart drummed against her hand, and his soft breath tickled her other hand, and both touches were searing hot. When she raised her eyes at him, she found him looking at her with that intense stare again, as if he could see through the mask. Marina took away her hands, finally breaking the coveted, dreaded skin contact with him.
 He was all wrong. Wrong was the embrace he gave her. Wrong was this warmth with which he looked at her. Wrong was her pitiful desire to tuck that loose strand of hair the colour of honey behind his ear. 
“You don’t recognise me, do you?” he asked, and his voice was honey too. It was so poignant, so bitter that Marina wanted to die, just stop existing right then and there because how could anything exist in the world of such beauty and sorrow.
Unwanted warmth came from him and slid inside her and stirred the long-forgotten hope that had been buried under the weight of rage for years and years. That hope had no place inside her. She’d tried to eradicate it, burn it, and still it survived, and now it pushed through the cold and peeked out like a small, feeble snowdrop.
Take the shovel and dig it out, roots and all. Do it with your bare hands if you must. Get them in the freezing snow and pull the hope out.
Marina grabbed the owl mask from the man’s hold and smashed it against his chest with force. “Put your fucking mask back on, newbie,” she said, her voice a deadly venom, and left the room.